A humble person is generally also a modest person, able to estimate accurately his own abilities and achievements, to acknowledge his mistakes, and to accept suggestions and new ideas.
Humility greatly pleases Jehovah.
In the Bible, modesty similarly refers to having a proper estimate of ourselves and an awareness of our limitations.
In the original language of the text, the emphasis seems to be on how that awareness should affect our behavior toward others.
When might we start to think or act immodestly?
Consider a few of the warning signs.
We might be taking ourselves or our privileges too seriously.
We might be drawing attention to ourselves in inappropriate ways.
Or we might be advocating strong opinions solely on the basis of our position, connections, or personal thinking—not even being aware that we have crossed the line from modesty to presumptuousness.
When we deal with health problems or other challenges beyond our control, we should throw our anxiety on Jehovah, trusting that he cares for us.
Also, we should do what is within our power to benefit from Christian meetings and other spiritual provisions.
What about faithful parents whose children have gone astray?
Elderly Samuel could not force his adult sons to remain loyal to the righteous standards he taught them.
He had to leave the matter in Jehovah’s hands.
Even so, Samuel could maintain his own integrity and please his heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Today, a number of Christian parents find themselves in a similar situation.
They trust that Jehovah is ever on the lookout to welcome back sinners who repent.
At the same time, such parents work hard to remain loyal to Jehovah, hoping that their example will move their children to return to the fold.
Good communication, sharing your feelings with a trusted confidant, can help you cope with anxiety.
A marriage mate, a close friend, or a congregation elder may be able to help you to put your anxiety into perspective.
Frank and honest communication can do much to help you to understand and deal with your concerns.
The Bible tells us: Plans fail when there is no consultation, but there is accomplishment through many advisers.
Jehovah also helps Christians to deal with anxieties by means of weekly congregation meetings.
There you can associate with fellow believers who are concerned about you and who want to encourage one another.
Such an interchange of encouragement will help to replenish your spiritual resources and make it easier for you to deal with any anxiety.
You may wonder why Paul would stress to anointed Christians the danger of living according to the flesh.
And could a similar danger today threaten Christians, whom God has accepted as his friends and views as righteous?
Sadly, any Christian could begin to walk according to the sinful flesh.
For example, Paul wrote that some among the brothers in Rome were slaves of their own appetites, which could have been sexual appetite or appetite for food, drink, or other things.
Some of them were seducing unsuspecting ones.
Recall, too, that for a time, a brother in Corinth was living with his father’s wife.
It is understandable, then, why God used Paul to warn Christians about setting the mind on the flesh.
That warning is equally valid now.
What a privilege it is to be part of Jehovah’s organization! With our knowledge of God’s requirements and standards comes the responsibility to do what is right and uphold his sovereignty.
As this world sinks deeper and deeper into debauchery, we must hate what is bad, as Jehovah does.
We refuse to join the ungodly and say: Good is bad and bad is good.
Because we want to please God, we strive to remain clean physically, morally, and spiritually.
We love Jehovah and put our trust in him; we choose to show our loyalty to him by living up to the standards clearly outlined in his own precious Book.
And we make every effort to comply with those standards at home, in the congregation, on the job, at school—everywhere.
One of the limitations on our freedom is that we must respect the right that others have to make their own decisions in life.
Why?
Since we all have the gift of free will, no two Christians will always make exactly the same decision.
This is true even in matters that involve our conduct and worship.
When we recognize that each Christian must carry his own load, we will respect the right that others have to use their own gift of free will, including when making personal decisions in matters of lesser importance.
Jehovah has given us the gift of free will and with it true freedom.
We treasure this gift because it allows us to make decisions that reveal to Jehovah how much we love him.
May we continue to show our appreciation for this precious gift by using it in a way that honors God and by respecting the way that others choose to use their gift.
In this permissive world, sin has all but lost its stigma, so that many are unaware of the need for redemption.
They do not understand what sin is, how it affects us, and what we need to do to be delivered from slavery to sin.
Honesthearted ones are relieved to learn that Jehovah, out of his great love and undeserved kindness, sent his Son to earth to ransom us from sin and its consequence, death.
The ransom sacrifice of Christ is the greatest proof of God’s love for us and illustrates the richness of His undeserved kindness.
What a relief it is to learn that if we exercise faith in the shed blood of Jesus, our sins will be forgiven and our conscience will be cleansed! Good news indeed to share with others!
When Abishai crept into Saul’s camp, he did not have his loyalties in the proper order.
Out of loyalty to David, Abishai was eager to kill King Saul, but David restrained him, realizing that it would be wrong to lift one’s hand against the anointed of Jehovah.
From that incident, we learn an important lesson: Although we can properly have several loyalties in our heart, the correct order of their importance should be determined by our application of Bible principles.
Loyalty springs from the heart, but the human heart is treacherous.
Thus, one who is loyal to God could easily feel strong ties of loyalty to a close friend or relative even if that person is practicing what is bad.
Especially when someone close to us abandons the truth must we remember that Jehovah always merits our primary loyalty.
Why did Christians in Rome need to prove to themselves something that they had already accepted?
Consider a Bible example.
Timothy knew the Scriptures well.
He had been taught from infancy by his mother and grandmother.
Nevertheless, Paul urged Timothy: Continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe.
According to one reference work, the original-language word for persuaded has the sense to be convinced and certain of the truth of something.
Timothy had made the truth his own.
He accepted it, not because his mother and grandmother told him to do so, but because he had reasoned on it for himself and had been persuaded.
Likewise, diligent personal study can help you answer questions, resolve any doubts, and strengthen your convictions.
We win people’s hearts, not by boasting or drawing undue attention to ourselves, but by displaying a quiet and mild spirit.
Vain sentiments in our hearts will eventually show up in our actions.
We might drop hints, for example, implying that we enjoy special privileges, possess inside information, or have special relationships with responsible brothers.
Or we might explain things in such a way that only we get the credit for ideas or accomplishments that others also contributed to.
Jesus set a wonderful example.
A good portion of what he said was either a quotation from or an allusion to the Hebrew Scriptures.
He modestly spoke that way so that his hearers would know that what he said was coming from Jehovah and was not the product of his own intellect or wisdom.
You cannot read hearts as Jesus could, but with God’s help you can exercise insight.
Will you use that ability to look for the good in your teenager?
No one wants to be labeled a troublemaker.
In thought or word, never label your son or daughter a rebellious teenager or a problem child.
Even if your teen is struggling, let him know that you see his potential and heartfelt desire to do what is right.
Note any signs of growth and progress, and commend him.
Help him to develop his good qualities by giving him increased responsibility when possible.
Jesus did that with his disciples.
About a year and a half after meeting Nathanael, Jesus selected him as an apostle, and Nathanael proved to be a zealous Christian.
Your commendation and encouragement will help your child to feel that he is, not someone who always fails to measure up, but a capable Christian whom Jehovah can use.
When the last days began in 1914, there were only a few thousand servants of Jehovah worldwide.
Motivated by love for neighbor, and with the backing of God’s spirit, a small remnant of anointed Christians persevered in the Kingdom-preaching work.
As a result, today a great crowd with an earthly hope is being gathered.
Our ranks have grown to about 8,000,000 Witnesses associated with more than 115,400 congregations throughout the earth, and we continue to grow in number.
For example, over 275,500 new Witnesses were baptized during the 2014 service year—an average of some 5,300 each week.
The remarkable growth that we see today is the result of our faith in God and full acceptance of the Bible—Jehovah’s miraculously inspired Word.
Especially outstanding is the spiritual prosperity of Jehovah’s people—despite the hatred and opposition of Satan, the god of this system of things.
Thousands of fragments, manuscripts, and ancient translations have been compared and painstakingly studied by Bible scholars.
This study validated the contents of the vast majority of Bible passages.
The few verses about which there is a degree of uncertainty do not change the overall message.
A study of ancient manuscripts convinces sincere Bible students that they have what Jehovah originally inspired Bible writers to record.
Despite fierce opposition from enemies, Jehovah has seen to it that his Word is the most widely translated book in the history of mankind.
Even at a time when many have little or no faith in God, the Bible remains a best seller and is now available, in whole or in part, in over 2,800 languages.
Though some Bible translations are not as clear or as reliable as others, it is still possible to learn the Bible’s basic message of hope and salvation from nearly all translations.
Words have the power to hurt as well as to heal.
Using words to inflict pain is common in Satan’s world.
The field of entertainment incites many to sharpen their tongue just like a sword and to aim their cruel words like arrows.
A Christian needs to avoid this harmful practice.
One example of cruel words is sarcasm, stinging remarks intended to belittle or rebuke others.
Sarcasm is often meant to be humorous, but it can quickly deteriorate into disrespectful, insulting speech.
Cruel sarcasm is one form of abusive speech that Christians should put away.
Humor can add spice to our speech, but we need to avoid the trap of trying to evoke a laugh by resorting to cutting, sarcastic quips that hurt or humiliate others.
The Bible admonishes us: Let a rotten word not come out of your mouth, but only what is good for building up as the need may be, to impart what is beneficial to the hearers.
These final words of the letter that the first-century governing body sent to the congregations can also be rendered be strong.
We definitely want to prosper in good health and be strong as we serve our great God.
As long as the present system of things remains and we are imperfect, sickness is a fact that we must face.
We cannot expect now to be cured miraculously.
However, points to the time when we will be healed completely.
The apostle John saw in vision a river of water of life and trees of life with leaves for the healing of the nations.
This does not refer to any herbal remedy now or in the future.
Rather, it points to Jehovah’s provision through Jesus for giving everlasting life to obedient mankind—truly something we can look forward to.
Speaking of the time in which we are living, Jehovah foretold: In those days ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold, yes, they will take firm hold of the robe of a Jew, saying: We want to go with you, for we have heard that God is with you people.
Like the figurative ten men, those who have an earthly hope have taken firm hold of the robe of a Jew.
They are proud to associate with the spirit-anointed Israel of God, knowing that Jehovah is blessing his anointed ones.
As did the prophet Zechariah, Jesus highlighted the refreshing unity that is experienced by God’s people.
He spoke of his followers as two groups, a little flock and other sheep, but he said that they would be one flock with one shepherd.
We need to safeguard our spirituality.
Because we live in a world that is dominated by Satan the Devil and because we are imperfect, it is easy for us to adopt the wrong thinking and conduct of the world.
The world’s spirit might be compared to a river current that is pulling us in a direction we do not want to go.
To avoid being swept downstream, we must vigorously swim in the other direction.
Similarly, effort is required to keep from being swept away by the spirit of Satan’s world.
When we are preaching to others, we focus on important and beneficial spiritual matters, not on thoughts that will erode our faith.
Preaching strengthens our convictions, reminding us of God’s promises and loving standards.
It also helps keep our spiritual armor intact.
If we keep busy in our spiritual activities, we simply do not have time to become overly concerned with our own problems, and that helps to protect us.
Note Ruth’s love for Jehovah.
The landowner Boaz later praised Ruth for seeking refuge under Jehovah’s wings.
That may remind us of a baby bird taking refuge under the wings of a powerful, protective parent.
Jehovah became such a parent to Ruth.
He rewarded her for her faith, and she never had any reason to regret her decision.
Today, many learn about Jehovah but hesitate to take refuge in him.
They hold back from becoming his dedicated, baptized servants.
If you hesitate to make a dedication to Jehovah, have you stopped to ask yourself why?
Everyone alive serves some god or other.
Why not take refuge in the only God worth serving?
Making a dedication to Jehovah is an excellent way to demonstrate faith in him.
He will help you live up to that decision and face whatever challenges may arise.
That is what God did for Ruth.
Thirsting for Bible truth, Charles Taze Russell and a few associates began their systematic study of the Bible in the late 1800’s.
Initially, Brother Russell’s goal was to ascertain which of the prevailing religions was teaching the truth.
He had carefully compared the teachings of many different religions, even non-Christian religions, with what the Bible says.
He soon realized that not one of those religions completely adhered to God’s Word.
At one point, he met with a number of local clergymen in hopes that these men would accept the truths that Russell and his associates had discovered from the Bible and teach them to members of their congregations.
The clergymen were not interested.
The Bible Students would have to face the facts: There could be no partnership with those determined to hold on to false religion.
Our appreciation for God’s undeserved kindness involves more than avoiding adultery, drunkenness, or other sins that some in Corinth had been guilty of.
Accepting God’s undeserved kindness means not only avoiding sexual immorality but also fighting any tendency to enjoy lewd entertainment.
Presenting our members as slaves to righteousness will not only keep us from drunkenness but also move us to shun drinking to the point of almost being drunk.
It may require considerable effort for us to fight against such wrong practices; still, it is a fight that we can win.
Our goal should be to avoid gross sins as well as wrongs that are not as flagrant.
We will not be able to do that perfectly.
Nevertheless, we should strive to do so, even as Paul did.
He urged his brothers: Do not let sin continue to rule as king in your mortal bodies so that you should obey their desires.
As evidence of their humility, elders refuse to let themselves be treated as celebrities.
In this they differ from many modern-day religious leaders and from those of the first century about whom Jesus said: They like the most prominent place at evening meals and the front seats in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces.
Genuine Christian shepherds humbly obey Jesus words: Do not you be called Rabbi, for one is your Teacher, and all of you are brothers.
Moreover, do not call anyone your father on earth, for one is your Father, the heavenly One.
Neither be called leaders, for your Leader is one, the Christ.
But the greatest one among you must be your minister.
You can thus understand why elders in congregations around the globe earn their fellow Witnesses love, respect, and honor.
Jesus knew that his earthly ministry would come to an end and that others would carry on his work.
Though his disciples were imperfect, he had confidence in them and told them that they would do works greater than he did.
He trained them thoroughly, and they spread the good news throughout the then-known world.
After his sacrificial death, Jesus was resurrected to heaven where he was given more work to do with authority far above every government and authority and power and lordship.
If we die faithful before Armageddon, we will be resurrected into a righteous new world, where there will be plenty of satisfying work for us to do.
Now, though, there is vitally important work that all of us can participate in—preaching the good news and making disciples.
May all of us, young or old, keep on having plenty to do in the work of the Lord.
Is having free will with limits real freedom?
Yes, it is! Why can we say that?
Limitations put on people’s freedom can protect them.
For example, we may exercise our freedom of choice to drive to a distant city.
However, would we feel safe traveling on highways where there were no traffic laws, where everyone was free to decide how fast or on which side of the road to drive?
Obviously not.
Limits are necessary in order for all to enjoy the blessings of true freedom.
To illustrate further the wisdom of using our free will within the boundaries set by Jehovah, consider the case of Adam.
He chose to overstep his God-ordained boundaries by eating the forbidden fruit.
This gross misuse of free will resulted in millenniums of suffering and pain for Adam’s descendants.
Knowing the consequences of Adam’s decision should move us to use our freedom responsibly and within the limits set by Jehovah.
When we face a new assignment, a prayerful and realistic analysis will help us to avoid overreaching our current abilities and limitations.
Modesty may lead us to say no.
However, when we do accept a new assignment, Gideon’s example reminds us that we cannot succeed without Jehovah’s direction and blessing.
After all, we have been invited to walk in modesty with our God.
So any time we take on new responsibilities, we need to reflect prayerfully on whatever Jehovah tells us through his Word and his organization.
We have to learn to adjust our unsteady steps to match Jehovah’s steady lead.
Let us remember that it is Jehovah’s humility and not our own ability that makes us great.
Choosing to walk modestly with God will therefore help us to think neither too much nor too little of ourselves.
One aspect of having inner peace is that we strive to be at peace with those in our family and those in the congregation.
We have the good sense to realize that both we and our brothers and sisters are imperfect.
Because of this, problems may occasionally arise, and if that happens, we have been taught to follow Jesus advice: Make your peace with your brother.
This is made easier when we recall that the other brother or sister is also serving the God who gives peace.
And there is another peace that is of incalculable value.
By our setting the mind on the spirit, we enjoy peace with our Maker.
Isaiah recorded words that applied in his day but have an even greater fulfillment now: You Jehovah will safeguard those who fully lean on you; you will give them continuous peace, because it is in you that they trust.
Even in these dark last days of Satan’s wicked system of things, Jehovah is blessing his people.
He makes sure that true worshippers flourish in their spiritual estate, which is unprecedented in its spiritual abundance.
As Jesus promised, Jehovah rewards us now by letting us be part of a loving family of spiritual brothers and sisters, a family that is international in scope.
Furthermore, those who earnestly seek God are rewarded with the incomparable blessings of peace of mind, contentment, and happiness.
You can be certain that after you have done the will of God, you will receive the fulfillment of the promise.
So let us now continue to strengthen our faith and to work whole-souled as to Jehovah.
We can do this, knowing that it is from Jehovah that we will receive the due reward.
Many people form impressions and opinions of us by what appears to the eyes.
As God’s ministers, therefore, we understand that our getting dressed is not just a matter of putting on something comfortable that we like.
The principles that we glean from God’s Word should move us to avoid wearing clothing that is tight-fitting, revealing, or sexually provocative.
That would rule out wearing clothing that exposes or accentuates private parts of our anatomy.
Nobody should feel uncomfortable or forced to look the other way when seeing how we are dressed.
When we are neat, clean, modestly dressed, and well-groomed, people are more likely to respect us and to be attracted to the God we worship.
Furthermore, our appropriate attire will reflect well on the organization we represent.
As a result, others may be more likely to pay attention to our lifesaving message.
Do not be quick to assume you know what others believe.
Some people say that they believe in evolution, but they also feel that God exists.
They think that God used evolution to create different forms of life.
Others say that they believe in evolution because they feel that it would not be taught at school were it not a fact.
And some stop believing in God because they are disappointed with religion.
So when you discuss the origin of life with someone, it is usually wise to ask questions first.
Find out what that person believes.
If you are reasonable and willing to listen, he may be inclined to listen to you.
If someone seems to be attacking your belief in creation, you might ask him to explain how life could have begun without a Creator.
For the first life-form to continue, it had to be able to reproduce, to make copies of itself.
One professor of chemistry said: One is struck by the complexity of even the simplest form of life.
Though we cannot be sure whom Paul had in mind, some, like Naboth and Zechariah, were stoned to death for obeying God and doing his will.
Daniel and his companions clearly had the opportunity to accept release by compromising their integrity.
Instead, their faith in God’s power enabled them, so to speak, to stop the mouths of lions and quench the force of fire.
Because of their faith, such prophets as Micaiah and Jeremiah received their trial by mockings and prisons.
Others, like Elijah, wandered about in deserts and mountains and caves and dens of the earth.
All of them endured because they had an assured expectation of what is hoped for.
We can show kindness to newcomers from a foreign background by warmly greeting them at the Kingdom Hall.
We may have noticed that new immigrants are sometimes shy and stay by themselves.
Because of their upbringing or social status, they may feel inferior to those of another race or nationality.
So we should take the initiative to show a warm and sincere interest in them.
If available in your language, the JW Language app can help you learn how to greet newcomers in their mother tongue.
You may feel awkward about approaching those from another culture.
To overcome such feelings, you might tell them something about yourself.
You may soon realize that you have more things in common than you have differences—real or imagined—and that each culture has its own strengths and weaknesses.
Paul was very much aware that he had neither earned nor deserved God’s great mercy, having been a former persecutor of Christians.
Toward the end of his life, Paul wrote to his fellow worker Timothy: I am grateful to Christ Jesus our Lord, who imparted power to me, because he considered me faithful by assigning me to a ministry.
What was that ministry?
Paul told the elders of the congregation in Ephesus what it included, stating: I do not consider my own life of any importance to me, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.
In his zeal to perform his ministry, Paul set an excellent example for modern-day Christians and demonstrated that God’s undeserved kindness had not been shown to him in vain.
Jehovah always supports his faithful servants, even though he may allow them to wait for privileges or a favorable change of circumstances.
He promised Abraham a son, but the patriarch had to exercise faith and patience.
Although he waited years for Isaac’s birth, Abraham did not lose heart, and Jehovah did not disappoint him.
Waiting is not easy.
If we were to brood over disappointments, we could become very discouraged.
Instead, it is wise to use our time to improve our spiritual qualifications.
By reading God’s Word and meditating on it, we can develop wisdom, insight, good judgment, knowledge, thinking ability, and soundness of mind.
Daily, we face issues involving entertainment, dress and grooming, managing money, and getting along with others.
By applying what we learn from the Bible, we can make decisions that please Jehovah.
God does not determine his course of action based on a momentary flare-up of anger, the type of emotional outburst that many humans display.
Yet, after observing the Ninevites repentant, changed attitude, Jehovah adjusted his decision.
In doing so, he manifested reasonableness, humility, and compassion.
Similarly, there may be occasions when it would be good for us to reconsider a choice or decision.
It could be when the prevailing circumstances change.
Jehovah altered his decision at times when circumstances changed.
Or new information may provide us with a valid reason to adjust a decision.
King David was given faulty information about Saul’s grandson Mephibosheth.
When David later received accurate information, he amended his decision.
Humans were created in God’s image.
Thus, most of them exhibit some godly qualities, though to differing degrees.
Humans are capable of showing one another love, kindness, and compassion.
Having been created with a conscience, people normally have an inborn sense—albeit at times inaccurate or distorted—that alerts them to what is right or wrong, honest or dishonest, appropriate or inappropriate.
Most people are drawn to things that are clean and beautiful.
Generally, they want to live with others in peace.
Whether they realize it or not, they reflect to some extent Jehovah’s glory, and for this reason, they deserve a measure of honor and respect.
However, balance is needed in determining what kind of honor should be rendered to other humans and to what extent.
What effect did God’s Word have on the men who took the lead?
Consider the example of King Josiah.
After a document containing the Mosaic Law was found, Josiah’s secretary began to read it to him.
Guided by God’s Word, Josiah began a vigorous campaign against idolatry and arranged an unprecedented celebration of the Passover.
Because Josiah and other faithful leaders were guided by God’s Word, they were willing to adjust and clarify the direction they gave to God’s people.
Those changes brought God’s ancient people into harmony with his will.
However, not all the kings who ruled God’s ancient people followed God’s instructions.
In some cases, Jehovah disciplined or replaced those leaders.
In his own due time, he appointed someone who would be superior to any of the men he had used thus far.
Nehemiah’s example demonstrates how modesty can help us to keep from becoming self-reliant when we receive a change of assignment or additional responsibility.
Relying just on his own experience, an elder could begin to care for congregation matters without first approaching Jehovah in prayer.
Others might make a decision first and then pray for Jehovah to bless their decision.
Is that being modest, however?
A modest person will always remember his place before God and his role in God’s arrangement.
Our abilities are not the important thing.
Especially when we are faced with a familiar situation or problem, we have to be careful not to rely on ourselves.
As members of God’s household, we learn to think in terms of fulfilling roles in a family or as part of a congregation rather than achieving a rank or climbing a corporate ladder.
Today, many people misuse their freedom to make choices in life even to the harm of others.
Indeed, just as the Bible foretold, during the last days men would be unthankful.
May we never misuse this precious gift from Jehovah or take it for granted.
How, though, can we avoid misusing our gift of free will?
All of us have freedom of choice regarding associations, styles of dress and grooming, and entertainment.
However, our freedom could become a cover for doing wrong if we chose to become slaves of our own fleshly desires or if we adopted the disgraceful fads and trends of the world.
Instead of using our freedom as an opportunity to pursue fleshly desires, we want to be determined to make choices that help us to heed the admonition: Do all things for God’s glory.
Noah lived in a world that was filled with violence and immorality.
Although Noah faithfully preached Jehovah’s warning message, he could not force wicked people around him to accept that message, nor could he make the Flood come any sooner.
Noah had to trust that Jehovah would keep His promise to end wickedness, believing that God would do so at just the right time.
We too live in a world filled with wickedness, which we know Jehovah has promised to destroy.
In the meantime, we cannot force people to accept the good news of the Kingdom.
And we cannot do anything to speed up the start of the great tribulation.
Like Noah, we need strong faith, trusting that God will soon intervene.
We are convinced that Jehovah will not allow this wicked world to continue for even one day longer than his purpose requires.
In God’s Word, we find Jesus soothing sayings.
His words and teachings were a source of refreshment to his listeners.
Multitudes were drawn to him because he calmed troubled hearts, strengthened the weak, and consoled the depressed.
He showed loving consideration for others spiritual, emotional, and physical needs.
Jesus promise of support still applies.
It can prove to be as true for you as it was for the apostles traveling with Jesus.
You do not have to be in Jesus physical presence to benefit.
As heavenly King, Jesus continues to have and show empathy.
Thus, when you are anxious, he can mercifully come to your aid and help you at the right time.
Yes, Jesus can help you to cope with distress, and he can fill your heart with hope and courage.
As a preacher of righteousness, Noah faithfully proclaimed the warning message he had been given.
No doubt, doing so helped Noah keep his faith strong.
In addition to preaching, he also used his physical and mental abilities to accomplish the God-assigned work of building an ark.
Like Noah, we strive to have plenty to do in the work of the Lord.
Such work may include the construction and maintenance of facilities for worship, volunteering to assist at assemblies and conventions, or caring for assignments at a branch office or a remote translation office.
Above all, we stay busy in the preaching work, knowing that this work strengthens our hope for the future.
Indeed, sharing in the preaching work fortifies our resolve not to give up in the race for life.
Like his father, Asa, Jehoshaphat maintained his devotion to God even when threatened by an overwhelming enemy force.
Jehoshaphat did become afraid! Yet, he resolved to search for Jehovah.
In prayer, he humbly admitted that his people were powerless before this large crowd and that he and his people did not know what to do.
He fully relied on Jehovah, saying the words of today’s text.
Sometimes we, like Jehoshaphat, may not know what to do, even being afraid.
But remember that Jehoshaphat acknowledged in a public prayer how weak he and his people felt.
Those who take the spiritual lead in the family can imitate Jehoshaphat by turning to Jehovah for guidance and strength to cope with the problem they face.
Do not feel ashamed to let your family hear such supplications.
They will sense your trust in Jehovah.
God helped Jehoshaphat, and he will also help you.
If we met all of Jehovah’s requirements perfectly, his kindness toward us would be deserved.
As it is, we fail to do so.
Thus, wise King Solomon wrote: There is no righteous man on earth who always does good and never sins.
The apostle Paul likewise stated: All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and the wages sin pays is death.
That is what we deserve.
Jehovah, however, expressed his love toward fallen mankind in an incomparable act of undeserved kindness.
He sent his greatest gift of all, his only-begotten Son, to earth to die in our behalf.
So Paul wrote concerning Jesus that he is now crowned with glory and honor for having suffered death, so that by God’s undeserved kindness he might taste death for everyone.
Yes, the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord.
From the beginning of his ministry, Jesus allowed the Scriptures to direct him.
Even his final words before he died included quotations of Messianic prophecies.
In contrast, the religious leaders of that time disregarded God’s Word whenever it contradicted their own traditions.
Quoting Jehovah’s words through the prophet Isaiah, Jesus said about them: This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me.
It is in vain that they keep worshipping me, for they teach commands of men as doctrines.
Jesus allowed God’s Word to guide not only his actions but also his teaching.
When confronted with religious controversies, he appealed neither to his vast wisdom nor to his unparalleled experience.
Instead, he held up the Scriptures as the final authority.
In the decades leading up to World War I, Charles Taze Russell and his associates realized that the organizations of Christendom were not teaching Bible truth.
Accordingly, they resolved to have nothing to do with false religion as they understood it.
As early as November of 1879, Zion’s Watch Tower straightforwardly set out their Scriptural position by stating: Every church claiming to be a chaste virgin espoused to Christ, but in reality united to and supported by the world beast we must condemn as being in scripture language a harlot church, a reference to Babylon the Great.
God-fearing men and women knew what they must do.
They could not expect to receive God’s blessing if they continued to support false religious organizations.
Consequently, many Bible Students prepared letters of withdrawal from their churches.
Jehovah leads and feeds those in the earthly part of his organization by means of the faithful and discreet slave under the direction of Christ, the head of the congregation.
Like the first-century governing body, this slave accepts God’s inspired word, or message, and highly esteems it.
The Bible directs us to attend meetings regularly.
It urges us to promote unity of doctrine.
God’s Word tells us to give the Kingdom first place in our lives.
The Scriptures also emphasize our duty and privilege to preach from house to house, in public places, and informally.
God’s own Book directs Christian elders to keep his organization clean.
And Jehovah decrees that all those in his organization must be clean physically and spiritually.
What did Jesus mean when he said: Never be anxious?
Obviously, he could not have meant that a servant of God would not at some point in life experience anxiety.
Instead, Jesus was helping his disciples to realize that undue, or extreme, anxiety does not solve problems.
Each day has its own challenges, so Christians do not need to add anxious thoughts about the past or the future to the concerns of the present.
Unwarranted anxiety often results if a Christian agonizes over possible future problems.
However, you need not be consumed by anxiety, or worry, over events that you do not know anything about.
Why not?
Because things often do not turn out to be as bad as we feared they might be.
Moreover, there is no situation beyond the control of the God on whom you can throw all your anxiety.
You can be certain that God can reward his faithful ones and help them deal with anxiety about the past, the present, and the future.
Adam and Eve had to decide what to do.
Would they obey Jehovah, or would they listen to the serpent?
They decided to disobey God.
By rebelling against Jehovah, Adam and Eve lost their perfection.
Moreover, their rebellion resulted in alienation from Jehovah because his eyes are too pure to look on what is evil.
Therefore, he cannot tolerate wickedness.
If he had tolerated it, the well-being of all living creatures—in heaven and on earth—would be threatened.
Above all, had God done nothing about the sin committed in Eden, his own trustworthiness would have been called into question.
But Jehovah is faithful to his own standards; he never violates them.
Thus, having free will did not entitle Adam and Eve to disregard God’s law.
As a consequence of rebelling against Jehovah, they died and returned to the dust from which they had been created.
Modesty can help us to make good decisions even when we cannot fully know or control how things will turn out.
As an example, if we enter some feature of the full-time service, what will happen to us if we get sick?
What if our aging parents need our help?
How will we look after ourselves in our old age?
No amount of prayer or research will reveal a complete answer to questions like these.
Our confidence in Jehovah will help us not only to acknowledge but also to accept our limitations.
After doing research, consulting others, and praying for guidance, we need to take steps in the direction that God’s spirit is leading us.
That gives Jehovah something to bless, or he can gently redirect our goals.
Showing honor to those to whom it is due keeps us from becoming self-centered.
It helps us to avoid having an inflated opinion of ourselves if some honor comes our way.
It also keeps us in line with Jehovah’s organization, which refrains from giving humans—whether believers or unbelievers—excessive or undue honor.
Moreover, it is the course of wisdom, helping us to avoid being stumbled if some human to whom we showed honor disappoints us.
The most important benefit of giving proper honor to those to whom it is due is that we thereby please God.
We act as he wants us to and thus maintain integrity to him.
That contributes to making a reply to any who would try to taunt him.
The world is full of people whose sense of how to bestow honor is distorted.
We are truly grateful to know how to give honor Jehovah’s way.
Like his father, Asa, Jehoshaphat encouraged the people to search for Jehovah.
He did so by organizing a teaching campaign that used the book of Jehovah’s Law.
He even went to the territory of the northern kingdom of Israel, to the mountainous region of Ephraim, to bring them back to Jehovah.
We can all have a share in the great teaching campaign that Jehovah is having done today.
Is it your goal each month to teach the Word of God to others, trying to move their heart to serve God?
By your extending yourself and with God’s blessing, you may be able to start a Bible study.
Is that a goal that you pray about?
Are you willing to accept this challenge, even giving up some of what is commonly viewed as free time?
And just as Jehoshaphat went to the territory of Ephraim to help people return to true worship, we can reach out to those who have become inactive.
There is no doubt that God has the power to affect someone’s health.
The Bible confirms that.
At times, he punished individuals with sickness, such as the Pharaoh in Abraham’s day and later Moses sister, Miriam.
God warned that if the Israelites proved unfaithful, he would afflict them with every sickness or plague.
On the other hand, Jehovah could remove diseases or prevent sickness.
Also, he could heal people.
After Job had been so sick that he longed to die, God healed him! Yes, God definitely has the power to intervene and heal a sick person.
It is similar with his Son.
We read that Jesus miraculously cured lepers, epileptics, and blind or paralyzed ones.
How strengthening it is to think that the healings Jesus performed are a foregleam of what he will do on a grand scale in the new world.
Paul’s logic is very reasonable and effective! Yes, complex designs are the product of an intelligent mind.
You can use the same basic reasoning when you talk with someone who has doubts about the Bible.
Find out what he actually believes and what topics may interest him.
If he is interested in scientific things, he might respond when you mention points that show the Bible’s scientific accuracy.
Other people might be moved by examples showing that the Bible contains accurate prophecies and accurate history.
Or you might point out the Bible’s guiding principles, such as those found in the Sermon on the Mount.
Remember, your goal should be to win hearts, not arguments.
So be a good listener.
Ask sincere questions, and express yourself with mildness and respect, especially when you talk with older ones.
They will likely be more inclined to respect your views.
We owe it to our holy God, to our spiritual brothers and sisters, as well as to the people in our territory to wear clothing that dignifies the message we bear and that brings glory to Jehovah.
This is especially so when we are engaging in Christian activities, such as when we attend meetings or when we share in the preaching work.
We should dress in the way that is proper for people professing devotion to God.
Of course, some clothing that is appropriate in one place may not be appropriate in another.
Hence, Jehovah’s people throughout the world take local customs into account so as not to cause offense.
When we attend assemblies and conventions, our dress needs to be appropriate and modest rather than reflect the extreme styles that may be common in the world.
Thus we will be proud to identify ourselves as Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Yes, and we will feel free to give a witness as we have an opportunity.
After describing various men and women of faith, Paul highlighted the most outstanding example of all—our Lord Jesus Christ.
For the joy that was set before him, states , he endured a torture stake, despising shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
Indeed, we should consider closely Jesus example of faith in the face of the severest of trials.
Like Jesus, early Christian martyrs, such as the disciple Antipas, refused to compromise their integrity.
They would have the reward of a resurrection to heavenly life—surpassing the better resurrection that ancient men of faith looked forward to.
Sometime after the Kingdom’s birth in 1914, all such faithful anointed ones, who were sleeping in death, were raised to spirit life in heaven to share with Jesus in his rulership over mankind.
Shortly before his death, Jesus three times warned his disciples about the ruler of this world.
Jesus knew that the Devil would keep people in darkness mentally in order to undermine the sense of urgency that permeates God’s prophecies about the future.
Satan blinds people’s minds through the world empire of false religion.
What have you detected in your conversations with others?
Has the Devil not already blinded the minds of the unbelievers about the coming end of this system of things and the fact that Christ is now ruling God’s Kingdom?
For the most part, people are apathetic when we try to tell them where this world is headed.
Do not let the apathy of others discourage or dissuade you from keeping on the watch.
You know better.
Jehovah gives us a worldwide brotherhood of caring worshippers who can offer us encouragement.
Many in the first century received that sort of spiritual strengthening.
It is similar today.
What can we do?
Think of how Aaron and Hur literally supported Moses hands during a battle.
We can look for ways to support and to give practical aid to others.
To whom?
To those battling the effects of old age, health limitations, opposition from their family, loneliness, or the loss of a loved one.
We can also strengthen young ones who are facing pressure to share in wrongdoing or to seek success in this system of things, whether academically, financially, or professionally.
Look for ways to show genuine interest in others at the Kingdom Hall, in the ministry, while enjoying a meal together, or as you converse on the telephone.
Timothy was already an experienced Kingdom proclaimer.
Yet, his ministry would be effective only if he would pay constant attention to his teaching.
He could not take for granted that people would respond to his usual approach.
To continue reaching their hearts, he had to adapt his teaching methods to their needs.
As Kingdom proclaimers, we need to do the same.
We often find that people are not at home when we preach from door to door.
In some areas, we cannot enter certain apartment buildings and gated communities.
If that is true in your territory, why not consider different ways to preach the good news?
Public witnessing is one excellent method of spreading the good news.
Many Witnesses are having a very effective and rewarding share in such work.
They set aside time to approach people at train and bus stations, in marketplaces and parks, and in other public areas.
Some parents do not commend their children because their own parents never gave them any encouragement.
Many employees are not being commended, so they complain that there is a chronic shortage of encouragement in the workplace.
Encouragement often involves commending a person for something he or she did well.
We can also be encouraging by reassuring others that they have good qualities or by speaking consolingly to those who are discouraged.
The Greek word usually translated encouragement literally means a calling to one’s side.
As we serve alongside our brothers and sisters, we likely have opportunities to say something encouraging.
Do we use suitable occasions to let others know why we love and appreciate them?
Before answering that question, we would do well to think about this proverb: A word spoken at the right time—how good it is!—.
Jehovah and Jesus greatly value what all of us do to support Kingdom interests, even if our efforts and contributions are limited because of our circumstances.
For instance, some of our dear elderly ones make great effort to attend and share in meetings and the ministry regularly.
Should we not commend and encourage them?
Yes, seize opportunities to encourage others.
If we see something that merits commendation, why hold back?
Consider what happened when Paul and Barnabas were at Antioch in Pisidia.
The presiding officers of the synagogue there told them: Men, brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for the people, tell it.
Paul responded by giving a fine talk.
If we can offer a word of encouragement, why not speak up?
We will very likely find that if we make it a habit to be encouraging, people will encourage us in return.
Although we may be very busy, we all need to make time for personal study and family worship.
Our aim, though, should not be simply to cover a certain number of pages or solely to prepare comments to participate at meetings.
We want to make sure that we allow God’s Word to reach our heart and strengthen our faith.
We should find a balance between keeping in mind the needs of others when studying and reflecting on our own spiritual needs.
We must recognize that when we prepare for the ministry, for the meetings, or for a talk, we may not necessarily apply what we read to ourselves.
To illustrate: Although a chef has to taste dishes before serving them, he cannot live merely on the food he samples.
If he wants to remain healthy, he has to prepare nutritious meals for himself.
Similarly, we should strive to nourish our heart with spiritual food that fills our personal needs.
Jacob was a very determined contender, and he proved that he would not turn aside from the challenge! And he was, indeed, rewarded for his perseverance.
He received the fitting name Israel, meaning Contender Perseverer With God or God Contends.
Jacob gained the rich reward that we too are seeking—Jehovah’s approval and blessing.
Jacob’s beloved wife, Rachel, was eager to see how Jehovah would fulfill his promise to bless her husband’s offspring.
But she had no children.
In her day, that situation was viewed as a great affliction.
How did Rachel find the emotional and physical strength to continue battling against circumstances that were discouraging but completely beyond her control?
She never gave up hope.
Rather, she kept contending by praying with more intensity.
Jehovah heard Rachel’s heartfelt supplications, and she was eventually blessed with children.
Unrealistic expectations may be at the root of a marital problem.
When dreams about a happy marriage do not come true, a person may feel dissatisfied, cheated, even bitter.
Differences in emotional nature and upbringing may become issues, or disagreements may arise regarding money, in-laws, and child-rearing.
However, it is commendable that the vast majority of Christian married couples find mutually acceptable solutions for all such problems because they let God guide them.
Christian marriage mates who have serious problems should seek help from the elders.
These experienced brothers can assist married couples to apply the counsel of God’s Word.
In resolving marital problems, we should also pray for Jehovah’s spirit and his help in applying Bible principles and displaying the fruitage of his spirit.
Jesus had limited time to carry out his ministry.
Nevertheless, he took time to cultivate the interest people showed in the good news.
For instance, Jesus taught a crowd, using a boat as a platform.
On that occasion, he miraculously gave Peter a huge catch of fish and said the words of today’s text.
What result did Jesus words and actions produce?
Peter and his associates abandoned everything and followed Jesus.
Nicodemus, a member of the Sanhedrin, became interested in Jesus teaching.
He wanted to learn more but was afraid of what others would say if he spoke with Jesus in public.
Jesus was flexible and generous with his time; he met with Nicodemus at night—away from the crowds.
God’s Son set aside time to build up the faith of individuals.
Should we not be diligent in making return visits and conducting Bible studies with interested ones?
How did humans inherit the sinful, dying condition that plagues us all?
The Bible explains: By the trespass of the one man Adam death ruled as king over Adam’s descendants.
Happily, though, we can choose no longer to be ruled, or dominated, by sin.
By exercising faith in Christ’s ransom sacrifice, we place ourselves under the rule of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness.
Even though we remain sinners, we need not resign ourselves to having sin dominate our lives.
When we do give in to sin, we will ask Jehovah for his forgiveness.
Therefore, we come under the rule of undeserved kindness.
With what result?
Paul explained: The undeserved kindness of God trains us to reject ungodliness and worldly desires and to live with soundness of mind and righteousness and godly devotion amid this present system of things.
The first marriage was struck with calamity because both Adam and Eve chose to misuse their free will by disobeying Jehovah.
The original serpent, Satan the Devil, deceived Eve by leading her to believe that eating fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and bad imparted special knowledge that would enable her to decide what was good and what was bad.
She did not show respect for her husband’s headship by asking him about the matter.
And instead of obeying God, Adam accepted the fruit Eve held out to him.
When brought to account by God, Adam blamed his wife.
Eve blamed the serpent for deceiving her.
Lame excuses but no justification! Because the first human pair had disobeyed Jehovah, they stood before him as condemned rebels.
What a warning for us! For success in marriage, each mate must accept personal responsibility and obey Jehovah.
We need to develop our brotherly love now, for it will help us during whatever tests and trials we may face in the future.
Even now, before the outbreak of the great tribulation, we have a strong need for brotherly love.
Many of our brothers have been adversely affected by earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, tsunamis, or other natural disasters.
Some brothers are suffering because of opposition and persecution.
Added to all of this are the economic woes we experience daily as a result of living in this corrupt system of things.
As such problems increase, so do our opportunities to demonstrate the depth of our brotherly affection.
Even though the love of the greater number of people will grow cold, we need to prove that our brotherly love continues.
The earth appears to be unique among all of God’s creation.
Just imagine, out of the unknown number of planets that exist in the Milky Way and beyond, Jehovah created the earth to be not merely a habitable place but a comfortable, beautiful, and safe home for his human creation! This reflects how Jehovah must love us.
Though Jehovah created a wonderful home for us, he knows that for us to be happy and content, we need more than material provisions.
A child feels truly secure when he senses his parents love and attention.
Jehovah created humans in his image, giving them the spiritual capacity to sense and to respond to his love and care.
Furthermore, Jesus said: Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.
As a loving Father, Jehovah richly provides us with all the things we enjoy, both physically and spiritually.
Do you at times take notes during public talks, assemblies, and conventions?
Reviewing these notes provides excellent opportunities for meditation as you think about what you have learned from God’s Word and from his organization.
Also, each month’s issues of the Watchtower and Awake! magazines and the latest convention releases give us fresh information that we can read and digest.
When you read the Yearbook, you may find it helpful to pause and reflect on what you read and let the experiences touch your heart.
You may want to underline key thoughts or to make notes in the margin, which you might find helpful when preparing for a return visit, a shepherding call, or a future talk.
Most important, pausing and meditating every now and then while reading Bible-based publications will give you the opportunity to absorb the material and to say a prayer of thanks to Jehovah for the good things you are learning.
When we share in the field ministry, not only do we build faith in others but our own faith grows.
Like the early Christians, we learn to put full faith in Jehovah and speak boldly in any situation.
As we sense how Jehovah helps us in life and how he answers our prayers, our faith grows.
This was true of Caleb and Joshua.
They showed faith in Jehovah when they spied out the Promised Land.
However, as they saw Jehovah’s direction at each turn in their life thereafter, their faith grew even more.
No wonder Joshua spoke so strongly to the Israelites, saying: Not one word out of all the good promises that Jehovah your God has spoken to you has failed.
He later added: Therefore, fear Jehovah and serve him with integrity and faithfulness.
As we taste Jehovah’s goodness, we too can develop such conviction.
The psalmist showed the right heart attitude when he wrote: Wait for God, for I will yet praise him as my Grand Savior.
My God, I am in despair.
That is why I remember you.
What deep feeling and love for Jehovah! Have you developed such love for and reliance on our heavenly Father?
Even if you are inclined to answer yes, you may be able to increase your reliance on him in line with what the Bible tells us: Trust in Jehovah with all your heart, and do not rely on your own understanding.
In all your ways take notice of him, and he will make your paths straight.
By loving us first, Jehovah has shown us how to love him.
Let us always keep in mind his surpassing example.
And let us increasingly demonstrate our love for him with our whole heart and with our whole soul and with our whole mind and with our whole strength.
’—.
Countless Bible verses show the importance of God’s name and its sanctification.
Jehovah God—the Author of the Bible—inspired its writers to use his name freely.
Omitting the name, found thousands of times in ancient manuscripts, shows disrespect for the Author.
The evidence for retaining God’s name in the Bible has not diminished but grown.
The 2013 revision of the New World Translation includes the name 7,216 times, which is 6 more than the 1984 edition.
Five of the additional instances are found at .
These were restored primarily because the Dead Sea Scrolls, which predate the Hebrew Masoretic text by over 1,000 years, contain the name in these verses.
Also, one occurrence at was restored as a result of further study of ancient manuscripts.
In many lands, Bibles are expensive and not readily available, so just receiving a Bible is a great blessing.
A report from Rwanda stated: For a long time, many people with whom the brothers were studying had not progressed because they had no Bibles.
They could not afford to purchase the local church edition.
And they often could not clearly understand the meaning of certain verses, which hindered their progress.
Things changed when the New World Translation in their language became available.
A Rwandan family with four teenagers said: We really thank Jehovah and the faithful and discreet slave for giving us this Bible.
We are very poor and had no money to purchase Bibles for every member of the family.
But now each of us has his own Bible.
To show our gratitude to Jehovah, we read the Bible as a family every day.
The apostle John referred to God’s first companion as the Word and the beginning of the creation by God.
Jehovah God communicated his thoughts and feelings to this firstborn Son.
The apostle Paul speaks of the tongues of angels, a heavenly form of communication superior to human language.
Jehovah has intimate knowledge of billions of intelligent creatures, earthly and heavenly.
At any given moment, countless individuals may be praying to him in many languages.
Not only does he listen to those prayers but he simultaneously gives direction to and communicates with heavenly beings.
To accomplish this, his thoughts, language, and communication must be vastly superior to those of humans.
Clearly, when Jehovah communicates with humans, he simplifies how he expresses his thoughts so that man can understand them.
God’s love for mankind is evident in the arrangement he has made for the Messianic Kingdom.
Jehovah has already placed this government in the hands of his Son, who loves mankind and is superbly qualified to rule.
At their resurrection, Jesus 144,000 heavenly joint heirs take with them the experience of human life.
The Kingdom was the main theme of Jesus teaching, and he taught his disciples to pray for it and the blessings it will bring.
Bible prophecy shows that God’s heavenly Kingdom was established when Christ’s presence began in 1914.
Since then, there has been a gathering of the remaining ones who will rule with Jesus in heaven as well as of a great crowd of people who will survive this system’s end and be ushered into the new world.
Christian parents have few joys like that of watching their child get baptized.
It was a highly emotional experience for us.
We were, of course, grateful that our children wanted to serve Jehovah, says Berenice, whose four children were baptized before they turned 14.
But, she adds, we also knew that as teenagers our children would face many challenges.
One expert on child development states: Adolescence is not a period of being crazy or immature.
It is an essential time of emotional intensity, social engagement, and creativity.
While they are teenagers, your children can develop a more meaningful friendship with Jehovah, set and pursue goals in the ministry, and use more initiative as they make their dedication and live up to it.
They may find adolescence to be a rewarding time of spiritual growth, even as Jesus did when he was young.
Those who have received this special invitation from God do not need another witness from any other source.
They do not need someone else to verify what has happened to them.
Jehovah leaves no doubt whatsoever in their minds and hearts.
The apostle John tells such anointed Christians: You have an anointing from the holy one, and all of you have knowledge.
He further states: As for you, the anointing that you received from him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to be teaching you; but the anointing from him is teaching you about all things and is true and is no lie.
Just as it has taught you, remain in union with him.
These ones need spiritual instruction just like everyone else.
But they do not need anyone to validate their anointing.
The most powerful force in the universe has given them this conviction!
David may have written that regarding the time when Absalom tried to usurp the throne while David was ill and unable to handle the situation.
Despite having received God’s forgiveness, David did not forget his own sin with Bath-sheba and its consequences.
Still, the king was sure that God would sustain him on his sickbed.
David did not pray for God to heal him miraculously.
The context suggests that David asked Jehovah to help him in the same way that He would help an individual who showed consideration to a lowly one.
That included being sustained on his sickbed.
Because David’s sin had been forgiven, he could ask that God would comfort and support him and that the physical resources of his body might enable him to recover.
We can do likewise.
We can be sure that Jehovah appreciates every effort that we make to serve him.
He understands any insecurities or self-doubts that we may have.
He shows us compassion if financial burdens weigh us down or our health or emotions tend to limit our sacred service.
And we can have full confidence in Jehovah’s tender regard for what his servants do to stay faithful to him.
Bear in mind, too, that we can approach the Hearer of prayer with the confidence that he will give attention to our concerns.
The Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort will unstintingly give us the emotional and spiritual support that we need, perhaps doing so by means of our fellow worshippers.
It touches Jehovah’s heart when we show compassion toward others.
And he promises to reward that kindness.
This does not imply that a person needs to think and talk of nothing other than the Bible or his love for God and his hope for the future.
Let us recall that Paul and others in the first century who pleased God were living rather normal lives in many respects.
They consumed food and drink.
Many married and enjoyed family life, working to support themselves.
However, those servants of God did not allow such normal aspects of life to become the center of their lives.
After showing that Paul worked as a tentmaker, the record reveals what his life was centered on: He regularly gave attention to the Christian preaching and teaching work.
And those were the activities that he recommended to his brothers and sisters in Rome.
Yes, Paul’s life centered on spiritual provisions and activities.
The Romans needed to imitate him, and so do we.
Those Christians were still alive on earth, so how could that be said of them?
God applied the ransom to Paul and others of his day.
Thus Jehovah forgave their sins, anointed them with holy spirit, and called them to be his spiritual sons.
Then they had the heavenly hope.
If they proved faithful, they would live and rule with Christ in heaven.
But Paul could speak of them while they were still alive and serving God on earth as having died with reference to sin.
He used the example of Jesus, who died as a human and then was raised up as an immortal spirit in heaven.
Death was no longer master over Jesus.
It was similar with anointed Christians, who could consider themselves dead with reference to sin but living with reference to God by Christ Jesus.
Their way of life was not as it once was.
They were no longer obeying the dictates or impulses of their sinful desires.
They had died to that previous way of life.
The Jewish exiles who submitted to the will of God lived a relatively normal life in Babylon.
Their captors allowed them to administer their own affairs to some extent.
The exiles even had freedom to move about the country.
Babylon was a center of trade and commerce in the ancient world, and documents that have been unearthed indicate that many Jews learned the art of buying and selling there, while others became skilled craftsmen.
Some Jews even became prosperous.
Exile in Babylon was nothing like the slavery in Egypt that the Israelites had experienced centuries before.
But would the Israelites ever again be able to worship God in a completely acceptable way?
At the time, it seemed most unlikely that they would.
Babylon never released its captives.
Yet, Jehovah had promised that his people would be liberated, and so they were.
God’s word of promise never fails.
We live in exciting times.
The earthly part of Jehovah’s organization is growing in many ways, but growth necessitates change.
As changes affect us personally, may we be humble, keeping an eye on Jehovah’s interests and not on our own.
Doing so promotes unity.
To Christians in Rome, Paul wrote: Just as we have in one body many members, but the members do not all have the same function, so we, although many, are one body in union with Christ.
Whatever our circumstances, then, let all of us work to further the interests of Jehovah’s magnificent Kingdom.
You older ones, equip younger ones to do what you do.
You younger brothers, accept responsibility, be modest, and maintain a respectful attitude toward the older ones.
And you wives, imitate Aquila’s wife, Priscilla, who accompanied and supported Aquila faithfully as their circumstances changed.
When Jesus was on earth, he exercised his free will to reject the temptations of the great Adversary.
In earnest prayer the night before his death, Jesus reaffirmed his determination to do the will of God.
He said: Father, if you want to, remove this cup from me.
Nevertheless, let, not my will, but yours take place.
May we imitate Jesus and use our free will to honor Jehovah and to do his will! Is that really possible?
Yes, we can imitate the example of Jesus, for we too are made in God’s image and likeness.
However, we have limitations.
We do not have the absolute freedom that Jehovah has.
God’s Word explains that our freedom has boundaries and that we must observe the limits Jehovah appropriately places on us.
What is more, wives are to be in subjection to their husbands and children to their parents.
An important way in which we show gratitude for the ransom is by dedicating ourselves to Jehovah on the basis of our faith in the ransom and getting baptized.
Our baptism shows that we belong to Jehovah.
Since everything Jehovah does is influenced by love, it is his will that all his worshippers display love as their dominant quality.
We prove that we desire to be sons of our Father who is in the heavens by loving our neighbor.
The command to love our neighbor is second only to the command to love Jehovah.
We can show such love for neighbor by obeying the command to preach the good news of God’s Kingdom.
As we show love for fellow humans, we reflect God’s glory.
In fact, love for God is made perfect in us when we obey the command to love others, especially our brothers.
Before receiving this personal witness from God’s spirit, anointed Christians cherished an earthly hope.
They longed for the time when Jehovah would cleanse this earth, and they wanted to be part of that blessed future.
Perhaps they even pictured themselves welcoming back their loved ones from the grave.
They looked forward to living in the homes that they built and eating the fruitage of trees that they planted.
Why did their thinking change?
They did not become dissatisfied with that hope.
They did not change their mind because of emotional stress or turmoil.
They did not give up on this earth, as if they suddenly felt that they would find living forever on earth to be tiresome or boring; nor did they merely want to explore some new frontier in heaven.
Rather, they changed because of the operation of God’s spirit that not only called, or invited, them but also changed their thinking and hope.
Jehovah is the Supreme One, the Creator of all things, the One possessing infinite wisdom and power.
Job came to understand that.
After Jehovah questioned Job about His works of creation, Job replied: I know that you are able to do all things and that nothing you have in mind to do is impossible for you.
Though Jehovah can accomplish whatever he sets out to do—without assistance—he has from the very beginning lovingly invited others to work along with him to achieve his purpose.
God’s first creation was his only-begotten spirit Son.
Jehovah allowed his Son to share in all further works of creation, both spirit and material.
Thus, Jehovah honored his Son both by including him in the works of creation and by telling others about his Son’s important role.
Jesus loved to talk about God’s Kingdom.
According to the Bible record, he spoke more about the Kingdom than about any other subject—referring to it more than 100 times during his ministry.
The Kingdom was truly dear to his heart.
Shortly after his resurrection, Jesus met with more than 500 prospective Kingdom proclaimers.
Perhaps it was on that occasion that he gave the command to take the Kingdom message to people of all the nations—a daunting task back then! This great work, Jesus foretold, would be carried on right up to the conclusion of the system of things, and that has proved to be the case.
Quite likely you are having a share in the fulfillment of that commission and prophecy.
And our God has equipped us with every good thing to help us fulfill that commission.
History has demonstrated beyond any doubt the truthfulness of what the Bible says: I well know, O Jehovah, that man’s way does not belong to him.
It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his step.
No, Jehovah did not create humans with the ability or the right to direct their affairs independent of him.
In addition to showing how futile human rule is, God’s temporary permission of wickedness serves another long-range purpose.
It provides permanent testimony that only God’s rule can be successful.
After Jehovah destroys wickedness and those who cause it, if anyone ever again would challenge Jehovah’s way of ruling in love, there would be no need for God to permit the challenge to stand.
He could use what has happened in mankind’s history as the just reason to remove such rebels quickly, not allowing them to establish wickedness once again.
Paul focused on the more important things and slaved in God’s service, traveling back and forth between Syria, Asia Minor, Macedonia, and Judea.
Forgetting the things behind and stretching forward to the things ahead, I am pressing on toward the goal for the prize, wrote Paul.
Taking full advantage of his singleness, Paul succeeded in being in constant devotion to the Lord without distraction.
Like Paul, some servants of God choose to remain single so that they have fewer family responsibilities and can devote themselves to Kingdom service.
Married servants of God often have more extensive family responsibilities.
But whether single or married, all can throw off every weight and serve God with as few distractions as possible.
This may require cutting down on time-wasting habits and setting goals to increase the time spent in the service of God.
What are some ways that we can show our love for God?
Obviously, we can use our material things to support the Kingdom work locally and worldwide.
This is certainly a fine way to express love for Jehovah, whether we have much or little materially.
There are, however, other ways to show Jehovah that we love him.
Recall Jesus reminder to his followers not to be anxious about food and clothing but to keep on seeking first the Kingdom.
He said that the Father knows what we really need.
The degree to which we trust that promise is an indication of the depth of our love for Jehovah because love and trust go hand in hand.
We cannot truly love someone whom we do not trust.
So we might ask ourselves: Do the goals I pursue and my way of life reflect that I truly love Jehovah? Do my actions day in and day out show that I trust his ability to care for my needs?
Jesus was convinced that the Bible is God’s Word, which provides the best guidance in life.
Following Jesus example, we must read the Bible daily, study it, and meditate on what we learn.
Along with general Bible study, dig into topics about which you may have questions.
To illustrate, you might increase your conviction that the end of this system of things really is near by studying in detail the Scriptural proof that we live in the last days.
Strengthen your trust in the Bible’s promises for the future by investigating its many prophecies that have already come true.
Develop your confidence in the practical value of the Bible by considering examples of how the Bible improves people’s lives.
You can also imitate Jesus by meditating on the wonderful promises Jehovah has made to you.
See these as God’s promises not just to mankind in general but to you personally.
A mature servant of Jehovah promotes unity within the congregation.
It is our goal that God’s people be harmoniously joined together and that all members cooperate with one another.
According to Jehovah’s Word, to achieve this unity, we need humility.
A mature brother or sister has the humility to work for unity, even when facing the imperfections of others.
How do you react when confronted with the imperfection of a brother or sister in the congregation?
Or what if you personally are wronged by someone in the congregation?
Is it your inclination, or even your pattern, to build a wall, so to speak, that separates you from the offender?
Or do you try to construct a bridge across the gap between the two of you?
A mature Christian wants to—yes, strives to—build bridges, not walls.
Do you have the goal of promoting unity in the congregation?
For entertainment, many people view or practice things that the Bible identifies as violent, sexually immoral, spiritistic, or ungodly in other ways.
For instance, the Internet, television programs, movies, novels, and magazine articles often present violence and immorality in a favorable light.
Behavior once considered unacceptable has even been legalized in some places.
But that does not make such conduct acceptable to God.
In the first century, Jesus followers shunned unclean entertainment.
Because of this and their godly conduct in general, they were maligned and persecuted by others.
They are puzzled that you Christians do not continue running with them in the same decadent course of debauchery, wrote the apostle Peter, so they speak abusively of you.
Some may feel that it does not matter what we choose to do.
To make wise decisions that please Jehovah, however, we must consider the laws and principles found in his written Word and comply with them.
For instance, to have God’s approval, we must act in harmony with his law on blood.
Prayer will help us to make decisions that relate to Scriptural principles and laws.
Weighty personal decisions can have quite a bearing on our spiritual health and welfare.
Every choice we make will likely affect our relationship with Jehovah—either for good or for bad.
A good decision will strengthen our relationship with God, whereas a bad one may damage it.
Moreover, a poor decision could injure others spiritually by disturbing, or even stumbling, them or by disrupting the unity of the congregation.
Indeed, our personal decisions do matter.
Does spending our time preparing for God’s new world mean forfeiting a better or more fulfilling way of life today?
By no means! Serving Jehovah is the most satisfying way of life there is.
It is not a matter of servitude under duress just so that we can pass through the great tribulation.
It is the way we are designed to live, the way that yields the greatest joy.
Having Jehovah’s guidance and experiencing his loyal love are far better than life apart from intimacy with him.
Of course, we need not wait for the new world in order to enjoy spiritual blessings that result from wholehearted service to Jehovah—they are available to us right now! Indeed, some of us have been reaping such blessings for decades, and we know from experience that no other life course could produce greater satisfaction.
In our preaching work, we meet with varied responses—some favorable, some hostile.
Regardless of how people react, however, God’s Word shows the standard that his servants must maintain.
When we make a defense before everyone who demands of us a reason for our hope, we do so with a mild temper and deep respect because we are motivated by neighbor love.
We show love of neighbor even if our message is rejected by an angry householder who berates us.
We imitate Jesus: When he was being insulted, he did not insult in return.
When he was suffering, he did not threaten, but he entrusted himself to the One Jehovah who judges righteously.
Whether we are with fellow believers or others, we show humility and apply the counsel: Do not pay back injury for injury or insult for insult.
Instead, repay with a blessing.
Jehovah helped the Israelites to defeat the Amalekites and the Ethiopians, and he gave Nehemiah and his associates the power to complete the rebuilding work.
God will similarly give us strength to stand firm against opposition, apathy, and anxiety so that we can carry out our preaching work.
We do not expect Jehovah to perform miracles for us.
Rather, we should do our part.
That includes our reading God’s Word daily, preparing for and attending the meetings weekly, feeding our mind and heart through personal study and family worship, and always relying on Jehovah in prayer.
Let us never allow other pursuits and activities to interfere with the means that Jehovah uses to strengthen and encourage us.
If you sense that your hands have dropped down in any of these areas, ask for God’s help.
Then see how his spirit energizes you, giving you both the desire and the power to act.
Some get up early in the morning to read, meditate, and pray.
Others do so during their lunch break.
You might find that this can be done early in the evening or before you go to bed.
Some enjoy reading the Bible in the morning and again before retiring.
Thus they read it day and night, or regularly.
The important thing is to buy out time from less important things for daily meditation on God’s Word.
God’s Word repeatedly promises blessings to all who meditate on it and who strive to apply what they learn.
Happy are those hearing the word of God and keeping it, said Jesus.
Most important, meditating on spiritual things each day will help us to bring honor to the Grand Creator of our marvelous brain, and he will reward us with happiness now and everlasting life in his righteous new world.
We have ample reason to believe that Jehovah is active in people’s lives today.
Time and again, we have heard experiences of how individuals prayed for spiritual help and then received it.
While preaching from house to house on a small island in the Philippines, Allan met a woman who started to cry.
He states: Just that morning, she prayed to Jehovah that his Witnesses would find her.
God answered her prayer so quickly that she was visibly moved.
Within a year, she dedicated her life to Jehovah.
Many of God’s servants have seen evidence of his help when they broke free from such addictive habits as smoking, drug abuse, or the viewing of pornography.
Some say that they repeatedly tried to stop on their own but were not successful.
However, when they turned to Jehovah for help, he supplied the power beyond what is normal, and they finally conquered their weakness.
Genuine love and unity identify Jehovah’s servants as the ones who practice the true religion, for Jesus said: By this all will know that you are my disciples—if you have love among yourselves.
And the apostle John wrote: The children of God and the children of the Devil are evident by this fact: Whoever does not practice righteousness does not originate with God, nor does the one who does not love his brother.
For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
Love that results in extraordinary unity marks Jehovah’s Witnesses as Christ’s true followers, the ones whom God is using to serve his purpose to have the good news of the Kingdom preached in all the inhabited earth.
The apostle Peter meant well when he urged Jesus to be kind to himself in order not to be killed.
Jesus, however, knew that Peter’s comment reflected faulty thinking.
To help him and the other disciples, Jesus gave frank counsel, stated the consequences of a self-sparing attitude, and outlined the blessings of a self-sacrificing spirit.
Peter learned the lesson.
Pray to Jehovah to give you insight so that you can understand where your teenager needs help.
For example, what might indicate that your child’s faith is wavering?
Perhaps his joy is waning, he is speaking critically of fellow believers, or he has become secretive.
Do not hastily conclude that these are signs of a double life involving serious sin.
On the other hand, do not ignore such signs or dismiss your teenager’s isolation as a mere phase.
Since cultures and religious beliefs vary greatly, we need to be discerning when it comes to choosing the right time to speak.
And there are many occasions when we may need to discern that.
For example, someone may offend us, even with well-intentioned words.
It would be prudent on our part to take time to reflect on whether the matter is serious enough to say something.
If we must speak, it would not be wise to approach the offender when we are upset and perhaps might speak a bit rashly.
Similarly, we need to be discerning when speaking about the truth to our unbelieving relatives.
We want them to come to know Jehovah, but we must be patient and perceptive.
Speaking the right words at the right time may help to open their hearts.
When we work along with those we love, we draw close to them and come to know their personality and their qualities.
We learn not only what they want to accomplish but also how they go about doing it.
Jesus worked along with Jehovah for perhaps billions of years, and they forged a strong, unbreakable bond of love and affection for each other.
They enjoyed a wonderful unity, always working together in full harmony.
In prayer, Jesus asked Jehovah to watch over his disciples.
The reason?
He prayed: So that they may be one just as we are one.
As we conform to God’s standards and share in the work of preaching, we come to understand his appealing qualities.
We learn why it is wise to trust in him and to follow his direction.
As we draw close to God, he draws close to us.
We also draw close to our spiritual brothers and sisters because we face similar challenges and joys and because we share the same goals.
Throughout the Scriptures, we see many examples of men of faith who were deeply moved by holy spirit; yet they did not have the hope of living in heaven.
John the Baptist was one such person.
Jesus highly praised him but stated that John would not be included in the heavenly Kingdom.
David was likewise moved by holy spirit.
He was a man of great spiritual depth and was even inspired to write sections of the Bible.
Still, at Pentecost, Peter said of David that he did not ascend to the heavens.
Holy spirit worked mightily in such ones, but it did not give them the special witness that they had been selected for heavenly life.
That did not mean that they were in some way unworthy or deficient.
It simply meant that Jehovah would resurrect them to life on a paradise earth.
In the dead of night, David and Abishai silently make their way through 3,000 sleeping troops.
At the center of the camp, the two men find King Saul fast asleep.
He has journeyed to the Judean wilderness in order to find David and kill him.
Abishai whispers: Let me pin Saul to the ground with the spear just once, and I will not need to do it twice.
David’s reply is astonishing! Do not harm him, for who can lift his hand against the anointed of Jehovah and remain innocent?
It is unthinkable from Jehovah’s standpoint for me to lift my hand against the anointed of Jehovah! David understood what loyalty to God involves.
He had no intention of harming Saul.
Why not?
Because Saul was God’s anointed king over Israel.
Loyal servants of Jehovah respect those whom he appoints.
Indeed, Jehovah requires that all of his people cherish loyalty.
Naomi is determined to press on to her homeland, Israel.
With her is Ruth, who faces what may be the most important decision of her life.
She can either go home to her people in Moab or stick with her mother-in-law, Naomi, and travel to Bethlehem.
Ruth could easily have reasoned that she had a family there in Moab—a mother and other relatives who would take a young widow in and help provide for her.
Moab was her homeland.
Its culture was her culture, its language her language, its people her people.
Naomi could promise her no such advantages in Bethlehem.
In fact, she advised Ruth to stay in Moab.
Naomi feared that she could provide neither a husband nor a home for her daughters-in-law.
What would Ruth do?
Note the contrast between her and Orpah, who returned to her people and her gods.
Did Ruth want to return to the false gods of her people?
No, she did not.
Jehovah displayed his power through Jesus Christ in extraordinary ways.
The four Gospels provide faith-strengthening details about some of the miracles that Christ performed.
Likely, he performed many other miracles.
Yes, God’s power was manifested in Jesus.
For good reason, then, the apostle Paul could say about him: Christ is the power of God.
Yet, what bearing can Jesus miracles have on our life?
The apostle Peter said that Jesus performed miracles, or wonders.
The powerful works that Jesus did on earth were foregleams of even grander blessings to come under his kingly rule.
They foreshadow the miracles that Jesus will perform in God’s new world on a global scale! His miracles also give us tremendous insight into his personality and that of his Father.
Abraham had so much evidence to demonstrate the reality of what he hoped for that it was as if he could see what he had not actually beheld! Abraham’s faith in God’s promises strengthened his resolve to do the divine will.
Acting in faith, he left the city of Ur and refused to take up permanent residence in any of the cities of Canaan.
Like Ur, they had shaky foundations because of their ungodly governments.
For the rest of his long life, Abraham was awaiting the city having real foundations, whose designer and builder is God.
Abraham saw himself living in a permanent place governed by Jehovah.
Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and others like them believed in the resurrection of the dead and looked forward to life on earth under God’s Kingdom, the city having real foundations.
Reflecting on such blessings bolstered their faith in Jehovah.
Using the example of the human body, Paul focused on unity under the head of the congregation, Jesus Christ.
The apostle spoke of cooperating through every joint that gives what is needed.
How can each of us, whether young or old, strong or frail, contribute to the unity and spirituality of the congregation?
A key is to submit ourselves to and respect those whom Jesus has designated to provide direction in the congregation, the elders.
We may not always find this easy to do.
However, we can with confidence request God’s guidance.
His active force can help us to support the congregation arrangements wholeheartedly.
So if we on occasion do not feel inclined to follow the direction given, we should reflect on how our humbly cooperating will contribute to the unity in the congregation.
Furthermore, cooperating in matters like these will likely help all of us to grow in love.
Why does Jehovah not give us an immediate response to our every request?
Recall that he likens our relationship with him to that of children with a father.
A child cannot rightly expect a parent to grant every request or to do so right away.
Some of a child’s requests may be mere passing whims.
Others must wait till the time is right.
Still others may not be in the child’s best interests or in the best interests of others involved.
Furthermore, to concede immediately to a child’s every request would change the relationship to one of master and slave, the child being the master.
Similarly, Jehovah may in our best interests allow time to pass before his response to our prayers becomes evident.
That is his prerogative as our wise Creator, loving Master, and heavenly Father.
Fulfilling all our requests right away would distort the proper relationship between us and him.
Some might be confused about the difference between dedication and baptism.
For example, some young people say that they have made a dedication to Jehovah but are not ready to get baptized.
Does that make sense?
Making a dedication means telling Jehovah that you will serve him forever.
At baptism, a person shows others that he is dedicated.
Therefore, baptism is a public expression of a private dedication that you have already made in prayer to Jehovah.
Before you get baptized, you need to be sure that you understand what dedication means.
Simply stated, when you dedicate your life to Jehovah, you give up ownership of yourself.
You promise Jehovah that you will put the doing of his will ahead of everything else in your life.
Any promise should be taken seriously, but how much more so a promise made to Jehovah God!—.
Our loyalty to Jehovah may be challenged if someone in a responsible position misjudges us.
Jonathan may have faced such a challenge.
King Saul, the anointed of God, was aware of his son’s friendship with David, but he did not understand the reason for it.
Saul humiliated Jonathan in an angry outburst.
However, Jonathan did not retaliate.
He did not waver in his loyalty to God or to David, who would in time become Israel’s king.
In congregations of Jehovah’s people today, it is very unlikely that we would be treated unjustly.
However, those taking the lead among us are imperfect men and could misinterpret our actions.
If we are ever misjudged or misunderstood, let us remain loyal to Jehovah.
To avoid spoiling our useful habits, we must not have as close associates those who practice bad things.
This applies not only to associating with unbelieving wrongdoers but also to associating with those who claim to worship Jehovah but who deliberately violate his laws.
If such professing Christians engage in serious wrongdoing and do not repent, we do not continue to associate with them.
If we were to associate with those who do not obey God’s laws, we might have the tendency to do what they do in order to be accepted by them.
For example, if we were to have close association with sexually immoral people, we might be tempted to practice immorality.
That has happened to some dedicated Christians, and some of them were disfellowshipped because they were not repentant.
Unless they repent, their condition can become like that described by Peter.
During Family Worship sessions, we focus on spiritual matters, and this contributes to the unity of the family.
Practicing for the field ministry can equip the family to be better prepared to preach effectively.
And it is not hard to see that when members of a family share comments about God’s Word, they are drawn closer together—all love the same God and all are interested in doing his will.
What can married couples do to cooperate to Jehovah’s praise?
When both mates are faithful servants of Jehovah, they can rejoice in the unity that this affords them.
Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, Elkanah and Hannah—all expressed their love for their mate.
We should make it a point to do the same.
That will unite us with our mate and draw us closer to our heavenly Father.
Satan is at war with the anointed remnant and the other sheep.
The Devil’s goal is to devour as many of Jehovah’s servants as he can in the short time that he has left.
Can we win our fight against Satan?
Yes! The Bible says: Oppose the Devil, and he will flee from you.
Many scoff at the idea that Satan even exists.
To them, Satan and the demons are fictional characters of novels, horror movies, and video games.
Such people feel that no intelligent person believes in wicked spirits.
Now, do you think that it bothers Satan that he and his invisible cohorts have been relegated to the world of folklore?
That is not likely! After all, it is easy for Satan to blind the minds of those who doubt that he exists.
Promoting the idea that spirits do not exist is one of the many ways that Satan uses to mislead people.
Jehovah is fully aware of our limitations.
Therefore, he does not expect us to endure trials in our own strength but offers us his fatherly help.
Of course, at times, we might feel that we cannot go on anymore.
But Jehovah assures us that he will never allow his servants to suffer beyond their limit of endurance.
Yes, he will make the way out.
Therefore, we have good reason to trust that Jehovah’s assessment of what we can bear is right.
When relief does not immediately follow our prayers for help, let us wait on the One who knows just when to act in our behalf.
Remember that he too is exercising patience, for he is ever eager to come to our rescue.
Jehovah is waiting patiently to show you favor, and he will rise up to show you mercy.
For Jehovah is a God of justice.
Nearly 3,000 years ago, the prophet Elijah invited young Elisha to become his attendant.
Elisha promptly accepted the invitation and faithfully served the older man by caring for humble tasks.
Then, after some six years of training, Elisha learned that Elijah’s work in Israel was about to come to an end.
At that point, Elijah urged his well-trained companion to stop following him, but Elisha was determined to stay with his mentor as long as possible.
If you are a young brother, how can you imitate Elisha today?
Promptly accept assignments, including humble tasks.
View your teacher as a friend, and let him know how much you appreciate the effort he makes in your behalf.
Above all, be faithful in carrying out any assignment you are given.
Why is this so important?
Because only after you demonstrate that you are faithful and reliable will the elders feel assured that Jehovah wants you to be entrusted with added responsibilities in the congregation.
To have Jehovah as our one and only God, we should give him our exclusive devotion.
Our worship of him cannot be divided or shared with any other gods nor tinged with ideas or practices from other forms of worship.
We must bear in mind that Jehovah is not just one among many gods; nor is he even the highest and most powerful among them.
Only Jehovah is to be worshipped.
To give Jehovah exclusive devotion, we must be careful not to allow anything to take, or even to share, the place in our life that Jehovah alone should occupy.
What might such things be?
In the Ten Commandments, Jehovah made clear that his people must have no other gods besides him and that they must not practice any form of idolatry.
Today, idolatry can take many forms, some of which might be hard to recognize.
But Jehovah’s requirements have not changed—he is still one Jehovah.
When Peter asked whether we should forgive up to seven times, Jesus replied: I say to you, not up to seven times, but up to 77 times.
Clearly, Jesus meant that we should always be willing to forgive; this should be our first and predominant leaning.
It is wise to remember that since we all have faults, we may be offending others.
If we discern that we have done so, the Bible’s direction is to go to the one whom we have offended and try to reconcile matters.
We appreciate it when others do not hold our faults against us, so we should act the same way toward them.
If we practice forgiving others, Jehovah will forgive us.
Yes, when it comes to handling the faults of others, the Christian course is to imitate our merciful Father’s dealings with us when we make mistakes.
From his natural parents, Moses evidently learned about Jehovah and His purpose to free the Hebrews from slavery and give them the Promised Land.
As Moses thought deeply about what Jehovah had promised to do for the Israelites, his faith and his love for God grew.
Like other God-fearing humans, he could likely conceive of the time when Jehovah would set mankind free from death.
It is no wonder that Moses was moved to love the God who felt compassion for the Hebrews and for all mankind.
Faith and love motivated Moses throughout his life.
Even when Pharaoh threatened Moses with death, his faith, love for God, and likely a mental picture of a bright future strengthened him to face the threat courageously.
At a marriage feast in Cana of Galilee, Jesus performed his first miracle.
The number of guests may have been greater than expected.
But whatever the case, the wine ran out.
Among the guests was Mary, Jesus mother.
For years, she had no doubt pondered all the prophetic promises associated with her son, who she knew would be called Son of the Most High.
Did she believe that in him there were powers not yet revealed?
What is evident is that at Cana, Mary and Jesus felt compassion for the newly married couple and wanted to save them embarrassment.
Jesus knew that hospitality was a duty.
So he miraculously turned some 100 gallons 380 L of water into fine wine.
Was Jesus obligated to perform this miracle?
No.
He simply cared about people and was imitating his heavenly Father by being generous.
As members of the Christian congregation, how can we succeed in giving this invitation?
Only by being harmoniously joined together and made to cooperate.
To share the message of the Kingdom good news with as many people as possible, we need to carry out our preaching work in an organized manner.
Therefore, we receive directions.
The guidance given through congregations around the globe prepares us for a united effort.
After we meet for field service, we go forth to proclaim the Kingdom message to mankind.
By word of mouth and through millions of copies of Bible-based publications, we spread the message.
Do you strive to follow the direction to share in special preaching campaigns?
By doing so, you are joining millions of others in unitedly heralding the message of the angel flying in midheaven, mentioned at .
Experienced elders stress the importance of beginning to train brothers when they are young—in their early teens—by giving them assignments in the congregation that fit their age.
Such early training will help young ones to keep their eyes on spiritual goals when they reach the late teens and are bombarded with many distractions.
An elder will also stimulate a learner’s desire to serve by explaining to him not only what to do but also why to do it.
By giving reasons, elders will be imitating the Great Teacher, Jesus.
For example, before giving his apostles the commission to make disciples, Jesus gave them a reason why they should obey.
He stated: All authority has been given me in heaven and on the earth.
Then he added: Go, therefore, and make disciples of people of all the nations.
Before parting from the servants who accompanied Abraham and Isaac, Abraham said: You stay here with the donkey, but the boy and I will go over there and worship and return to you.
What did Abraham mean?
Was he lying to his servants, telling them that Isaac would return when Abraham knew that Isaac was to be sacrificed?
No.
The Bible gives us some insight into what Abraham was thinking.
Abraham reasoned that God was able to raise Isaac up even from the dead.
Yes, Abraham believed in the resurrection.
He knew that Jehovah had revived his reproductive powers and those of Sarah in their old age.
Abraham realized that nothing was impossible for Jehovah.
So he was confident that whatever happened on that challenging day, his beloved son would be restored to him so that all of Jehovah’s promises could be fulfilled.
No wonder Abraham is called the father of all those having faith!—.
The Bible says that Jehovah’s people, including young ones, will offer themselves willingly for his service.
So a person who is contemplating baptism needs to be sure that this is his or her personal desire.
That might call for self-scrutiny on your part.
Why?
Because your circumstance as a youth may be somewhat special.
For example, you may have been raised in the truth.
Over the years, you have likely seen many people get baptized—including some of your peers and perhaps even your siblings.
If that is indeed your situation, what should you be careful about?
Be alert that you do not come to view baptism as little more than a coming-of-age custom that all young people follow sooner or later.
What can you do to make sure that you will keep the right view of Jehovah’s arrangement of baptism?
Take time often to stop and think about the reasons why getting baptized is so important.
Although God had anointed Saul to be king, Saul later became disobedient and was rejected by Jehovah.
Since God did not immediately remove Saul from the throne, his misconduct tested his subjects and all who were close to him.
They faced the challenge of being loyal to God while the king, who sat on Jehovah’s throne, followed a wayward course.
Yet, Saul’s son Jonathan proved to be loyal to Jehovah.
We too can prove ourselves loyal to Jehovah by being in relative subjection to the superior authorities, as God requires, even if some seem unworthy of respect.
For example, a government official may be corrupt, but we still respect his position because we are in relative subjection to governmental superior authorities.
In fact, all of us can prove loyal to Jehovah by respecting those to whom he gives authority.
Our ability to form mental pictures of things we have not seen is a gift from God.
It allows us to make wise plans and to look forward to good things.
Jehovah can foresee future events, and in the Scriptures he often tells us ahead of time what will happen.
We may be able to form mental pictures of what will occur.
In fact, our ability to conceive of unseen things helps us to exercise faith.
When Hannah spent time thinking about what it would be like when she took her son Samuel to serve at the tabernacle, she had a basis for her mental picture.
It was based on what she had resolved to do, and this helped her to focus on her objective.
If we visualize what God has promised to do, we are thinking about something that will definitely happen.
No doubt, many faithful people of Bible times formed mental pictures of things God had promised.
When Jesus was born, Satan knew that this newborn child would grow up to become the promised Messiah.
Would Satan reason that taking the life of a baby was going too far?
Satan has no noble code of ethics.
And with regard to the child Jesus, Satan did not hesitate to act.
How?
King Herod was greatly upset when astrologers inquired about the one born king of the Jews, and he was determined to kill him.
To make sure that the job was done, he ordered the execution of all boys two years of age and younger who were living in Bethlehem and its districts.
Jesus escaped death in that unimaginable slaughter, but what does this tell us about our enemy Satan?
It is evident that the Devil places no value on human life.
He certainly does not have a soft spot for children.
Satan truly is a roaring lion.
Never underestimate his vicious disposition!
Some elders may find it hard to set aside time for training others.
Perhaps they think: Training is important, but it is not as urgent as other congregation matters that simply cannot wait.
If I have to postpone training for a while, the congregation will continue to function.
Though it is true that numerous matters require an elder’s immediate attention, delaying training may harm the spiritual well-being of the congregation.
Elders care for many important tasks that have to be handled promptly.
But if elders keep postponing necessary training, sooner or later the congregation will lack sufficient qualified brothers to care for all that needs to be done.
Clearly, then, we should guard against thinking that training is of low priority.
Elders who take a long-range view and invest their time in training less experienced brothers are wise stewards and a true blessing to the entire congregation.
Picture the Israelites in Bible times praising Jehovah during a festival at his temple in Jerusalem.
They would have prepared for the journey, cared for one another’s needs en route, and then been united in worship at the temple.
All of this called for cooperation.
As we continue our journey toward the new world, we too need to be harmoniously joined together and cooperating.
Think of what blessings await us! We have already left behind the disunity and confusion marking the present system of things.
We now see being fulfilled what both Isaiah and Micah foretold—God’s people are unitedly going up to the mountain of Jehovah.
Indeed, how elevated our form of worship is in the final part of the days.
But how great will be our happiness and joy when we live at the time when all mankind will be harmoniously joined together and cooperating!
Once a new Kingdom Hall is built, it needs to be kept clean and tidy to reflect the qualities and personality of the God whom we worship—a God of order.
The Bible associates holiness and spiritual cleanness with physical cleanliness.
Thus, if people desire to be acceptable to Jehovah, they must also practice good hygiene.
In harmony with these principles, we should always feel comfortable inviting interested people to our meetings, confident that the condition of the hall will complement the good news we share with them.
They will see that we worship a God who is holy and who will soon transform the earth into an uncontaminated paradise.
Whatever the local situation, our Kingdom Hall should be exemplary when it comes to being well-kept, since it bears the name of Jehovah and is a place of pure worship.
In referring to our daily bread, Jesus likely meant our immediate needs.
Thus, he went on to show how God clothes the wildflowers, and then he said: Will he not much rather clothe you, you with little faith?
He concluded by repeating this important advice: Never be anxious about the next day.
This shows that rather than be materialistic, we should be content with our basic daily needs.
Such needs may include suitable accommodations, employment to provide for our family, and wisdom to cope with health concerns.
If we were to pray only for such physical needs, however, it would indicate an imbalance.
We have spiritual needs that are of much greater importance.
Man must live, said our Master, not on bread alone, but on every word that comes from Jehovah’s mouth.
So we should continue to pray that Jehovah will keep on feeding us with timely spiritual food.
Do we regularly petition God to help us maintain our integrity when we are faced with temptation?
Our upbringing or our past conduct may have developed in us a liking for practices that Jehovah condemns.
Even then, he can help us to bring about necessary changes so that we can continue to serve him acceptably.
King David recognized this.
After he had committed adultery with Bath-sheba, David implored Jehovah: Create in me a pure heart, and put within me a new spirit, a steadfast one.
Sinful conduct may strongly appeal to our fallen flesh, but Jehovah can stir within us a willing spirit, the desire to obey him.
Even if wrong desires are deeply rooted and tend to crowd out our chaste thoughts, Jehovah can guide our steps so that we can obey his commandments and succeed in living by them.
He can prevent anything harmful from dominating us.
As children of the first man, Adam, we have all inherited sin and its penalty, death.
Not one of us can say, I do not need the ransom.
Even the most faithful servant of God is completely dependent on Jehovah’s undeserved kindness through Christ.
Each of us must recognize that we have been forgiven an enormous debt.
What should Jehovah’s love and mercy compel us to do?
If we are harboring some resentment against any of our brothers or sisters, we should imitate Jehovah, who is ready to forgive.
If we appreciate what Jehovah has done for us in canceling our own enormous debt, then we will want to forgive others from our heart.
We simply cannot receive the love and forgiveness of God unless we love and forgive others.
While it is true that forgiving will not change the past, it will certainly change our future for the good.
Jesus said the above words to help Peter and other disciples to imagine the future.
They could thus contemplate their role in the government that would rule over the earth and bring grand blessings to obedient mankind.
Jehovah’s earthly servants have always benefited from thinking about the fulfillment of divine promises.
Abel knew enough about God’s purposes to envision a better future, exercise faith, and embrace a reliable hope.
Abraham’s outstanding acts of faith were possible because he saw something about the fulfillment of God’s prophecy concerning the promised offspring.
Moses looked intently toward the payment of the reward, acting in faith and growing in love for Jehovah.
Our own faith in God and love for him can help us to envision what Jehovah has promised.
One of the best ways that you can grow in your love for Jehovah is to meditate on the greatest gift Jehovah has provided—the ransom sacrifice of his Son.
Thinking about the ransom and what it means for you will motivate you to respond appreciatively.
Your response to the ransom might be illustrated this way: Imagine that someone rescued you from drowning.
Would you simply go home, dry yourself off, and forget about what was done for you?
Of course not! You would certainly feel indebted to the person who rescued you.
The fact is, you would owe that person your life! We owe Jehovah God and Jesus Christ much more.
Because of this great act of love, we now have the incomparable prospect of living forever on a paradise earth!
Older ones in our midst remember when congregations had a congregation servant rather than a body of elders, when countries had a branch servant rather than a Branch Committee, and when direction was given by the president of the Watch Tower Society rather than by a clearly established Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Although all these devoted brothers were supported by faithful assistants, one person was basically responsible for making decisions in the congregations, at the branch offices, and at world headquarters.
During the 1970’s, adjustments were made to put the responsibility for oversight on groups of elders rather than on individuals.
These adjustments were based on increased knowledge about the pattern set in the Scriptures.
Instead of having the influence of one individual dominate, the composite good qualities of all the gifts in men whom Jehovah has provided benefit the organization.
Loyalty and neutrality are always issues for true Christians, not just in times of war.
Why?
Because all who are dedicated to Jehovah have promised him their love, loyalty, and obedience.
We want to abide by God’s righteous standards wherever we live and whatever our background, nationality, or culture.
Loyalty to Jehovah and to his Kingdom transcends any other attachment we may have.
Such loyalty requires that Christians remain separate from all conflicts and controversies of this world.
People who do not share our faith may feel a special loyalty to their country, tribe, or culture or even to their national sports team.
Challenges to such loyalties have resulted in competition and rivalry and, in extreme cases, bloodshed and genocide.
It would be all too easy to take sides in worldly issues and be drawn into controversy.
God’s Word counsels us not to be hasty when we need to make an important decision.
When we take the time to weigh carefully all the aspects or facts related to a decision, we will likely be more successful.
Before determining a course of action, a family head ought to take the time to research the Scriptures and Christian publications, as well as to consider the opinions or views of others in his family.
Recall that God urged Abraham to listen to what his wife had to say.
Elders too should take time to do research.
And if they are reasonable, modest men, they will not fear losing respect if new, relevant information comes to their attention that indicates a need to reconsider what they had already decided.
They should be ready to adjust their thinking and decisions when appropriate, and all of us do well to follow that example.
This can promote peace and order in the congregation.
Each of us can examine his heart to see if it is fully devoted to God.
Ask yourself, Am I determined to please Jehovah, to defend true worship, and to protect his people from any corrupting influence?
For example, what if someone close to you has to be disfellowshipped?
Would you take decisive action by ceasing to associate with that person?
What would your heart move you to do?
Like Asa, you can show that you have a complete heart by fully relying on God when you are faced with opposition, even some that may seem insurmountable.
You may be teased or ridiculed at school for taking a stand as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Or colleagues at work may taunt you for taking days off for spiritual activities or for not often working overtime.
In such situations, pray to God, just as Asa did.
Remain firm for what you know is right and wise.
Remember that God strengthened and helped Asa, and He will strengthen you.
Josiah was zealous in doing what pleased God.
Like Josiah, young ones should start to seek Jehovah from an early age.
Repentant King Manasseh may have taught Josiah about God’s mercy.
Young ones, draw close to faithful older ones in your family and in the congregation and learn how good Jehovah has been to them.
Also, remember that the reading of the Scriptures touched Josiah’s heart and moved him to take action.
Your reading of the Word of God may move you to take action that will increase your happiness and strengthen your friendship with God as well as spur you on to help others to search for God.
A study of the Bible may also help you to notice ways that you can improve in your service to God.
If you do, apply yourself, just as Josiah did.
It is up to each of us to make decisions, and the wise, right choices are based on sound Scriptural knowledge.
We should not give someone else the responsibility to make decisions for us.
Rather, we should personally learn what is right in God’s eyes and choose to do it.
How might we give in to the danger of letting others choose for us?
Peer pressure could sway us to make a bad decision.
Still, no matter how others try to pressure us, it is our responsibility to follow our Bible-trained conscience.
In many respects, if we let others make our decisions, we are essentially deciding to follow them.
It is still a choice, but a potentially disastrous one.
The apostle Paul clearly alerted the Galatians to the danger of letting others make personal decisions for them.
Some in the congregation wanted to make personal choices for others in order to alienate them from the apostles.
The apostle John warned that if anyone loves the things in the world—the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life—then the love of the Father is not in him.
This means that we need to examine our heart constantly to see if it is being enticed by worldly entertainment, associations, and styles of dress and grooming.
Or the love of the world might involve efforts to attain great things, such as through the pursuit of higher education.
We stand at the threshold of the promised new world.
Thus, how important it is that we keep well in mind Moses powerful words at ! If we clearly understand and firmly believe that Jehovah our God is one Jehovah, we will do all we can to give him exclusive devotion, serving him as he approves.
Watching their associations is particularly important for single Christians who want to get married.
The Bible counsels God’s servants who are seeking a marriage mate to marry only in the Lord, that is, to marry only a dedicated, baptized worshipper of Jehovah who lives according to Scriptural teachings.
By marrying fellow believers, Christians gain companions who are dedicated to Jehovah and will help them maintain their integrity to him.
Jehovah knows what is best for his servants, and he has been consistent in stating his viewpoint regarding marriage.
Note his easily understood command to Israel through Moses.
With reference to the inhabitants of surrounding nations—people who did not serve Jehovah—the Israelites were instructed: You must not form any marriage alliances with them.
For they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods.
How can we train our conscience?
Key ways are by regularly and prayerfully studying the Bible, meditating on what we read, and then putting into practice what we have learned.
Obviously, this involves more than accumulating facts and learning rules.
Our study of the Bible should gradually give us an ever more precise picture of Jehovah, his personality, his qualities, and what he likes or dislikes.
Our conscience becomes attuned to the ways of Jehovah God.
This should stir our heart, moving us to want to become more and more like him.
However, if we cannot understand the conscientious decision of a fellow believer on some personal matter, we should not quickly judge him or feel that we ought to pressure him to change his mind.
Perhaps his conscience is still weak and in need of more training or is too sensitive on certain issues.
Courageously placing ourselves under the kindly scrutiny of a mature Christian may prevent us from rationalizing any wrong desires.
Talking about our weakness with a mature, spiritually qualified Christian may help us to identify blind spots.
This can help us to make the necessary adjustments in order to remain in Jehovah’s love.
Christian elders are especially qualified to help us.
Seeking assistance is essential if the source of any immoral desires is the unclean habit of viewing pornography.
The longer the delay in seeking help, the greater the risk that unclean desires will become fertile and give birth to sin that will hurt others and bring reproach on Jehovah’s name.
The desire to please Jehovah and to remain in the Christian congregation has moved many of his servants to accept loving help.
Woven throughout the fabric of Jesus preaching tours were evidences of his genuine concern for the human family.
In one instance, Jesus encountered a pitiful sight.
Right in front of him was a man with a frightful disease, leprosy.
Testifying to the advanced stage of the man’s illness, physician Luke describes him as being full of leprosy.
When he caught sight of Jesus, the leper fell facedown and begged him: Lord, if you just want to, you can make me clean.
The man had no doubt that Jesus possessed the power to heal him, but what he needed to know was, did Jesus have the desire to do so?
How would Jesus respond to this heartfelt request?
Jesus stretched out his hand, touched the leper, and with a voice reflecting both strength and tenderness, he said: I want to! Be made clean.
Then the leprosy vanished from him.
Yes, Jesus demonstrated how much he loved people.
How might we prepare now for life in God’s new world?
Well, suppose we were planning to move to another country.
How could we prepare for that change?
We might start learning the language of the people who live there.
Learning about their customs would be beneficial.
We might sample some of their foods.
To a certain extent, we would begin to live as if we were already residents of that land.
After all, that is the way we expect to live once we arrive there.
Similarly, we can prepare for life in the new world by living now, to the extent possible, as we expect to live then.
Independence and an unreasonable insistence on personal preference may be highly regarded by some, but what has been the result?
Failure to accept God’s direction has led to suffering, misery, even tragedy.
How we look forward to the time when all mankind will submit to Jehovah’s loving sovereignty!
It is up to each individual whether he will allow himself to be brought into temptation or not.
For his part, Jesus immediately rejected each temptation from the Devil by the use of a relevant quotation from God’s Word.
Thus, Jesus upheld God’s rightful sovereignty.
But Satan did not give up.
He waited until another convenient time.
Jesus continued to resist all of Satan’s efforts to break his integrity.
However, Satan attempts to ensnare Jesus followers, including you.
Because of the ongoing issue regarding God’s sovereignty, Jehovah allows the Tempter to use this world to tempt us.
God is not bringing us into temptation.
On the contrary, he has confidence in us and he wants to help us.
Out of respect for our free will, though, Jehovah does not automatically prevent us from falling into temptation.
We have to do two things—remain spiritually awake and persist in prayer.
Christians have to train their mind and conscience to respond appropriately when neutrality-related issues arise.
Take, for example, Mirjeta from a region of the former Yugoslavia.
She was raised to hate Serbians.
On learning that Jehovah is impartial and that Satan is responsible for inciting ethnic problems, she strove to rid herself of nationalistic sentiments.
Yet, when ethnic violence broke out in her area, old hatreds began to resurface in her, causing Mirjeta to find it difficult to preach to Serbs.
She realized, though, that she could not just sit back and hope that such unwholesome feelings would go away.
She begged Jehovah for help to overcome this challenge.
I have found that focusing on the ministry is the best help ever, she says.
In the ministry, I try to imitate Jehovah’s loving personality, and I have seen my negative feelings melt away.
Brothers traveling on behalf of the governing body shared the decrees that had been decided on by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem.
As congregations observed those decrees, they continued to be made firm in the faith and to increase in number day by day.
What should we do when we receive direction from God’s organization today?
Jehovah’s own Book directs all of us to be obedient and submissive.
A critical or rebellious spirit has no place in God’s organization, for such an attitude could disrupt our loving, peaceful, and united congregations.
Of course, no loyal Christian would want to display a disrespectful and disloyal spirit like that of Diotrephes.
We might well ask ourselves: Do I contribute to the spirituality of those around me? Am I quick to accept and support the direction given by the brothers taking the lead?
The Greek verb translated reaching out means stretching to grasp something, perhaps something beyond your normal reach.
In using that word, the apostle Paul stressed that spiritual progress requires effort.
Imagine a brother thinking about his future in the congregation.
He may not now be serving as a ministerial servant, but he realizes that he needs to cultivate spiritual qualities.
First, he strives to qualify as a ministerial servant.
In time, he hopes to be spiritually qualified to serve as an overseer.
In each case, he works hard to meet the qualifications needed to care for added responsibility in the congregation.
In like manner, brothers and sisters who desire to serve as pioneers, as Bethelites, or as Kingdom Hall construction volunteers do well to stretch forward to attain their goals.
A great blessing that comes to us through Jehovah’s undeserved kindness is comfort for a distressed heart.
To Christians in Thessalonica, who were experiencing persecution, Paul wrote the words found in today’s text.
How comforting it is to be aware of the loving care that we receive from Jehovah because of his generous kindness! As sinners, on our own we would have no hope.
But Jehovah provides us with a wonderful hope.
Jesus promised his followers: This is the will of my Father, that everyone who recognizes the Son and exercises faith in him should have everlasting life.
Yes, the hope of eternal life is a gift, a wonderful expression of God’s undeserved kindness.
Paul, who certainly appreciated that fact, said: The undeserved kindness of God has been manifested, bringing salvation to all sorts of people.
For a while, the apostle Peter harbored prejudice against non-Jews, but he gradually learned to eradicate negative views from his heart.
Likewise, if we detect any trace of prejudice or racial pride in us, we should make a conscious effort to root it out of our heart.
We might reflect on the fact that none of us deserve salvation; we are all imperfect humans, regardless of our nationality.
So why should we feel superior to anyone else?
We should have a view like that of the apostle Paul, who admonished his fellow anointed Christians that they were no longer strangers and foreigners, but members of the household of God.
Earnest effort to overcome prejudiced views regarding those who are of a different background will certainly help us to put on the new personality.
To keep our faith strong, Jehovah has kindly provided us with his complete Word, the Bible.
To be happy and to succeed, we must regularly read God’s Word, daily if possible.
Then, like pre-Christian worshippers of Jehovah, we need to keep meditating on God’s promises and be obedient to his requirements.
Jehovah has also blessed us with an abundant supply of spiritual food provided through the faithful and discreet slave.
Thus, by cherishing what we learn from the spiritual provisions that Jehovah has made available, we will be like the ancient examples of faith who had an assured expectation of their Kingdom hope.
Prayer also played a vital part in keeping the faith of pre-Christian witnesses strong.
Their faith was strengthened as they experienced God’s answers to their prayers.
You saw a lot of casual clothing, especially when it was hot, reported a Dutch newspaper regarding a meeting of church leaders.
That is not the case at the convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Indeed, Jehovah’s Witnesses are often commended for adorning themselves in respectable dress, with modesty and good judgment in the way that is proper for those professing devotion to God.
The apostle Paul was speaking about women, but the same basic standard applies to Christian men.
Appropriate standards of dress are important to us as Jehovah’s people, and they are important to the God we worship.
What the Scriptures say about dress and grooming leaves no doubt that the Sovereign of the universe has wholesome standards of attire for his true worshippers.
Therefore, our choice of dress and grooming should take into account what is pleasing to the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.
Some have chosen study projects that involved studying Bible prophecy or the Bible’s historical, archaeological, and scientific accuracy.
One fascinating prophecy to consider is .
That verse introduces the Bible’s primary theme, which is the vindication of God’s sovereignty and the sanctification of his name by means of the Kingdom.
That one verse, using figurative language, sets out how Jehovah will solve all the suffering that humans have experienced since Eden.
How might you study ?
One way would be to prepare a time line.
It could list key scriptures that show how God bit by bit shed light on the individuals and arrangement referred to in this verse and that prove that the prophecy will be fulfilled.
As you see the scriptures form a harmonious unit, you will surely conclude that the Bible prophets and writers must have been moved by holy spirit.
In his letters, Paul spoke highly of his fellow Christians.
He had traveled with some of them for years and undoubtedly knew their faults, but he said good things about them.
For instance, Paul described Timothy as his beloved and faithful child in the Lord, one who would genuinely care for the concerns of other Christians.
The apostle commended Titus to the Corinthian congregation as my companion and a fellow worker for your interests.
How encouraged Timothy and Titus must have been to learn what Paul thought of them! Paul and Barnabas risked their lives by going back to places where they had suffered violent attacks.
For instance, even though they had faced fanatic opposition in Lystra, they returned there in order to encourage new disciples to remain in the faith.
In Ephesus, after Paul faced an angry crowd, he encouraged the disciples there.
Jesus joyfully worked alongside his Father, rejoicing both in what he accomplished and in the knowledge that Jehovah was fond of him.
What, though, about us?
Jesus said that there is happiness both in giving and in receiving.
It brought us joy to receive the truth, and it brings us joy to share the truth with others.
As we share Bible truths with others, we see spiritually hungry ones filled with delight as they begin to understand and appreciate our God and the precious truths contained in his Word.
It touches our heart to see them make changes not just in their thinking but also in their way of life.
We realize that the work of sharing the good news is vitally important.
It opens the way to everlasting life for those who become reconciled to God.
What more joyful, satisfying work could we engage in than that of helping people chart a course that will result in their living forever?
It is vital that we resist being affected by the world’s strongly entrenched things.
These include its doctrines, philosophies, and harmful practices, such as committing immorality, using tobacco, and abusing alcohol and drugs.
And we must constantly fight against our fleshly weaknesses and discouragement.
Is it really possible to defeat such powerful opponents?
Yes, but not without a struggle.
Drawing on the example of a boxer of ancient times, Paul said of himself: The way I am aiming my blows is so as not to be striking the air.
Just as a boxer fights off his opponent, we must fend off our enemies.
Jehovah trains us and helps us in our fight.
He provides lifesaving instructions in his Word.
He also helps us through our Bible-based publications, Christian meetings, assemblies, and conventions.
Are you putting into practice what you are learning?
As a teacher, Jesus reached hearts because he loved Jehovah, God’s Word, and people.
Similar love will help parents reach the hearts of their children.
So parents, be good students of the Bible and of our study aids.
Take an interest in creation and in articles in our publications that discuss this topic.
Your doing so will broaden your knowledge, deepen your appreciation for Jehovah, and better equip you to teach your young ones.
When your heart is filled with Bible truth, you will want to discuss it with your family.
Do this not only when preparing for Christian meetings or during family worship but at any time.
Moreover, such discussions should not be forced but should be natural and spontaneous—a part of your everyday conversation.
A winegrower went to the marketplace early one morning to hire men to work in his vineyard.
The men he found agreed to the wage he offered and went to work.
The owner needed more workers, however, and returned to the marketplace throughout the day to hire more and more men, offering a fair wage even to those whom he hired at the end of the afternoon.
When evening came, he gathered the workers together to give them their wages, and he gave the same amount to each of them, whether they had labored many hours or just one.
When those first hired realized this, they complained.
The winegrower replied: Did you not agree to the wage I offered?
Do I not have the right to give all my workers whatever I want?
Are you envious because I am generous?
Jesus parable reminds us of one of Jehovah’s qualities that is often mentioned in the Bible—his undeserved kindness.
Although the Bible does not provide specific rules about the kinds and limits of love play that might be associated with natural sexual intimacy, it mentions displays of affection.
Christian marriage partners should treat each other with tenderness.
Strong love for God and neighbor will not allow anyone or anything to interfere with the marriage bond.
Some marriages have been strained or even ruined by a mate’s addiction to pornography.
Any tendency toward being attracted to this or toward sexual interests of any sort outside marriage should be firmly resisted.
Even giving the appearance of flirting with someone to whom one is not married is unloving and should be avoided.
Remembering that God is aware of all our thoughts and actions will reinforce our desire to please him and to remain chaste.
With such accurate knowledge, the Colossian Christians would be able to walk worthily of Jehovah in order to please him fully.
This would enable them to continue bearing fruit in every good work, especially in the preaching of the good news.
To serve effectively, a worshipper of Jehovah must follow a routine of Bible study.
We do well to help Bible students grasp that fact.
Moreover, we ourselves must be convinced of its value.
In fact, we ourselves need to have good Bible study habits.
So you might ask yourself, When householders express opinions that are contrary to Scriptural teachings or they ask difficult questions, am I able to give answers that are based on the Bible?
If we tell others how much we have benefited from our personal study of the Bible, we may encourage them to obtain such benefits by being diligent students of the Scriptures.
Jehovah began choosing anointed ones after Jesus death and resurrection, and it seems that all in the first-century Christian congregation were anointed.
From the first century until the beginning of the last days, the vast majority of those who claimed to follow Christ were false Christians; Jesus likened them to weeds.
Even so, Jehovah continued to anoint some faithful ones throughout that time, and they proved to be like the wheat Jesus described.
During the last days, Jehovah has continued to select those who will make up the 144,000.
If he chooses to wait until late into that period to select some for that privilege, who are we to question his wisdom?
We must be careful not to react like the disgruntled workers who complained about the way their master dealt with the 11th-hour workers.
God does not make such requests of us today.
But he does ask us to obey him even when his commands are hard for us to comply with or we cannot comprehend the reasons for them.
Can you think of something that God asks of you that you find difficult to do?
For some, it may be the preaching work.
Perhaps they struggle with shyness, making it hard for them to approach strangers with the good news.
For others, it may be the challenge of standing out as different, perhaps at school or in the workplace.
Do you ever feel like Abraham, as if you are trudging up that slope in Moriah, facing a task that seems beyond you?
If you do, take courage from Abraham and his faith! Meditating on examples of faithful men and women can move us to imitate them and draw close to Jehovah as our Friend.
Because Saul was determined to kill David, Jonathan faced a conflict of loyalties.
Although he had made a covenant with David, Jonathan was also submissive to his father.
But Jonathan knew that God was with David and not with Saul.
Therefore, Jonathan put loyalty to David ahead of loyalty to Saul.
He warned David to hide and then spoke well of him to Saul.
If we are not careful, loyalty to a nation, a school, or a sports team can eventually choke out loyalty to God.
For example, Henry enjoys playing chess.
His school had a tradition of winning the championship, and he wanted to put forth his best effort.
But he admitted: Gradually, loyalty to the school began to take priority over my loyalty to God.
Weekend chess matches were crowding out my Kingdom service.
So I decided to give up being part of the chess team.
As a young person, there are ways in which you will be able to discern whether your decision to get baptized comes from your heart.
For example, your heartfelt desire to serve Jehovah will be reflected in your prayers.
How often you pray and how specific your prayers are may well reveal how close your relationship with Jehovah is.
An important way that Jehovah answers our prayers is by directing our attention to his Word.
Thus, our effort to study the Bible is yet another indication that we really want to draw closer to Jehovah and serve him from the heart.
So ask yourself: How specific are my prayers?
How regular is my personal study of the Bible?
And if your Christian family has a Family Worship evening, ask yourself: Do I willingly share in that arrangement?
Your answers to these questions will help you to see whether your decision to get baptized is your personal desire.
Brothers who are learning to serve in the congregation should be taught to think in terms of Bible principles.
For example, suppose an elder asks a brother to keep the entranceway to the Kingdom Hall clean in appearance and safe for walking.
He could consider and explain how the brother’s work to enhance the Kingdom Hall will adorn the teaching of our Savior, God.
He could also ask the learner to think of the elderly ones in the congregation and how carrying out his assignment will benefit them.
Having such conversations with the learner as part of his training will help him to focus more on people than on rules.
He will experience the joy that comes from seeing how brothers and sisters in the congregation benefit from the service he renders.
Further, the elder should commend the learner for the effort he makes to apply the suggestions.
Sincere commendation does for a learner what water does for a plant—it makes him thrive.
Abel likely gave much thought to that promise and realized that someone would be struck in the heel so that mankind could be lifted to perfection such as that enjoyed by Adam and Eve before they sinned.
Abel had faith based on God’s promise, and Jehovah therefore accepted his sacrifice.
Noah survived the Deluge because of his faith.
After the Flood, he was moved by faith to offer animal sacrifices.
Like Abel, he undoubtedly had faith that mankind would eventually be released from bondage to sin and death.
As he entered the dark post-Flood era during which Nimrod acted in opposition to Jehovah, Noah still had faith and hope.
Very likely, he would have been heartened to think about mankind as being set free from oppressive rule, inherited sin, and death.
We too can see such a wonderful time—and it is near indeed!—.
What a wonderful hope true Christians share! All of us, whether of the anointed or of the other sheep, hope to see the fulfillment of God’s original purpose and the sanctification of Jehovah’s name.
Such expectations are the most noble any human can cherish.
We also long for the promised reward of everlasting life, either as part of God’s new heavens or as part of his new earth.
In the meantime, we hope for the continued increase of the spiritual prosperity of God’s people.
Those who are part of Satan’s world also have some sort of hope, but they may doubt whether theirs will ever be realized.
For example, millions of gamblers may hope to win a lottery, but they could hardly feel sure about that.
Real faith, on the other hand, is the assured expectation of our Christian hope.
David might have concluded that Solomon was not qualified to oversee such an important project as building a house for God.
After all, the temple was to be exceedingly magnificent, and Solomon was at the time young and inexperienced.
Yet, David knew that Jehovah would equip Solomon to handle the work given to him.
So David focused on what he could do to assist, preparing materials in great quantity.
Likewise, older brothers today should not be disheartened when it becomes necessary to hand their assignments over to younger men.
Rather, it is in the best interests of the work when younger ones are trained to handle responsibilities.
Appointed men should have great satisfaction when the younger ones whom they have trained become qualified to take on the work.
There are many reasons why we should be thankful to Jehovah! We owe him our very life, for without him we would not even move or exist.
He has given us a very precious gift—his own book, the Bible.
We gratefully accept it as God’s message, even as the Christians in Thessalonica received God’s word and accepted it.
With the written Word of God in hand, we have drawn close to Jehovah and he has drawn close to us.
Our heavenly Father has granted us the wonderful privilege of being part of his organization.
How we appreciate such blessings! The psalmist put matters beautifully when he sang: Give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good; his loyal love endures forever.
Twenty-six times in , we find the refrain his loyal love endures forever.
By proving loyal to Jehovah and his organization, we will experience the truthfulness of those heartening words because we will live forever!
It was fitting for Christians in Rome to analyze what their focus in life really was.
Could it be that their lives were dominated by or centered on things of the flesh?
And it is fitting for us to consider the same about our lives.
What is of greatest interest to us, and to what does our speech gravitate?
What do we really pursue day in and day out?
Some may find that they are focusing on trying different types of wine, decorating the home, finding new clothing styles, making investments, planning vacation trips, and the like.
Such matters are not bad in themselves; they can be normal aspects of life.
For example, Jesus once made wine, and Paul told Timothy to take a little wine.
But did Jesus and Paul make wine a prominent aspect of their lives?
Was it their passion, what they constantly talked about?
No.
What about us? What is our key interest in life?
The apostle Paul recommended singleness; yet, he said the words above.
Paul added: If they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to be inflamed with passion.
Getting married can help a person to avoid letting passion lead him to such a practice as masturbation or to sexual immorality.
In addition, age is a factor to consider, for the apostle stated: If anyone thinks he is behaving improperly by remaining unmarried, and if he is past the bloom of youth, then this is what should take place: Let him do what he wants; he does not sin.
Let them marry.
Nevertheless, a person should not be prompted to marry because of surges of passion that may come in youth.
He may not be mature enough to take on the responsibilities of married life.
Although the governing body had authority in the early congregation, they acknowledged that their Leader was Jesus.
Let us by love grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, wrote the apostle Paul.
Instead of naming themselves after a prominent apostle, the disciples were by divine providence called Christians.
True, Paul acknowledged the importance of holding fast the traditions, or Scripturally based practices, given by the apostles and other men who took the lead.
Nevertheless, he added: But I want you to know that the head of every man including every member of the governing body is the Christ; in turn, the head of the Christ is God.
Yes, under his Head, Jehovah God, the invisible and glorified Christ Jesus was leading the congregation.
Jehovah uses the Christian congregation and its overseers to mold us on a personal level.
For example, if the elders discern that we are having spiritual problems, they try to help us—but not on the basis of human wisdom.
Rather, they humbly look to God, asking for insight and wisdom.
With our situation in mind, they act on their prayers by doing research in God’s Word and in our Christian publications.
This can equip them to render help tailored to our needs.
Understanding how God may be molding us can help us in our relationships with fellow believers and in our attitude toward people in our territory, including our Bible students.
God does not force individuals to make changes, but he reveals his righteous standards so that they can clean up their lives or make adjustments voluntarily.
Jehovah God created humans with free will, that is, the liberty to choose between one option and another.
God provided a valuable guide for the first man and woman and their future offspring—the conscience, an inner sense of right and wrong.
Used properly, the conscience can help us to do good and to avoid wrongdoing.
Our conscience thus is an evidence of God’s love for us and of his desire that humans be united in doing good.
Today, humans still have the faculty of conscience.
Though many have strayed far from the Bible’s standards of conduct, we find that some individuals often do what is good and abhor what is bad.
The conscience holds many individuals back from committing deeds of extreme wickedness.
Imagine how much worse world conditions would be if no one had a conscience! How grateful we can be that God has provided humans with a conscience!
In saying so, Paul was not minimizing the importance or value of discipline, for he continued: Yet afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
If we love Jehovah, we must guard against becoming complacent or resentful of his counsel.
In today’s me-first, self-centered generation, it is not easy to talk about counsel and discipline, let alone to accept such.
Even those who seem to accept counsel or discipline often do so begrudgingly.
Christians, though, are advised to stop being molded by this system of things.
We are to perceive and follow the perfect will of God.
Through his organization, Jehovah gives us timely counsel about many areas of life—our conduct with the opposite sex, our associations, and our recreation.
By willingly accepting and applying such direction, we show that we are grateful and that we truly love Jehovah from the heart.
This statement by the apostle John is truly worthy of our deep and appreciative reflection.
With the words see what sort of love the Father has given us, John was urging Christians to think about the nature and magnitude of God’s love for them, to consider how God loves them.
Comprehending Jehovah’s love in those terms will surely deepen our love for him and strengthen our relationship with him.
To some, though, God’s love for people is a foreign concept.
To them, God is to be feared and obeyed.
Or perhaps because of certain entrenched erroneous teachings, they feel that God is unloving, even unlovable.
On the other hand, there are those who believe that God’s love is unconditional and that he loves them regardless of what they do or fail to do.
As you studied the Bible, you learned that love is Jehovah’s paramount attribute and that his love moved him to give his Son as a ransom in our behalf.
Scientific research shows that saying words aloud during study makes them easier to recall.
The Creator of our brain knows this.
That is why he instructed Joshua to read His book of the Law in an undertone.
You will likely find that reading the Bible softly, or in an undertone, makes a deeper impression on your mind.
This may also help you to concentrate better.
While reading may be done with little effort, meditation requires concentration.
That is why the imperfect human brain is inclined to switch to easier, less demanding tasks.
Thus, the best time to meditate is when you are rested and in a stress-free environment with few distractions.
The psalmist found that a good time to meditate was while he was awake in bed during the night.
Jesus, who had perfect mental powers, knew the advantage of being in quiet places to meditate and pray.
According to Satan, no one serves Jehovah out of unselfish love.
Has Satan changed since he made that claim?
Not at all! When he was ousted from heaven, Satan was still called the accuser of our brothers .
, who accuses them day and night before our God! Satan has not forgotten the issue of integrity.
He is eager to see us surrender to our trial and withdraw our support of God’s sovereignty.
When you struggle with adversity, therefore, imagine this invisible scene.
Satan and his demons are on one side, pointing to your struggles and alleging that you will buckle under the pressure and give up.
On the other side are Jehovah, his reigning Son, the resurrected anointed ones, and myriads of angels.
They are cheering you on, delighted by your endurance and support of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
You can take personally Jehovah’s inspired request, mentioned in today’s text.
The first-century Christian congregation was made up of Jews, Greeks, Romans, and people of other nationalities.
They had different religious backgrounds, customs, and sensibilities.
Because of that, some had difficulty accepting the new way of worship or fully relinquishing their former ways.
The apostle Paul found it fitting to remind them that Christians have one God, Jehovah.
What about the situation in the Christian congregation today?
The prophet Isaiah foretold that in the final part of the days, people of all nations would flock to Jehovah’s elevated place of true worship.
They would say: Jehovah will instruct us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths.
How happy we are to see this prophecy undergoing fulfillment before our eyes! The result is that many congregations have become multiracial, multicultural, and multilingual, giving praise to Jehovah.
Satan uses his world’s commercial system to seduce us into believing that having material things beyond our actual needs is necessary for the enjoyment of life.
He is adept at appealing to the desire of the eyes.
The world offers every kind of material thing, from the superb to the absurd, some of which look very enticing.
Have you ever purchased something, not because you needed it, but because it caught your eye in an advertisement or a store display?
Did you later realize that you could have lived the rest of your life without it?
Such nonessential things only complicate our life and weigh us down.
They can ensnare us and distract us from our spiritual routine of studying the Bible, preparing for and attending meetings, and sharing regularly in the ministry.
Remember, the apostle John warned: The world is passing away and so is its desire.
God’s people have used a variety of methods in order to reach as many as possible with the good news.
This was especially important when the workers were few.
In the early 20th century, newspapers were used to reach large audiences in areas where Jehovah’s people were few in number.
Each week, Charles Taze Russell would telegraph a sermon to a newspaper syndicate.
In turn, the syndicate retelegraphed the sermon to newspapers in the United States, Canada, and Europe.
It is estimated that by 1913, Brother Russell’s sermons were reaching 15,000,000 readers by means of 2,000 newspapers! After Brother Russell died, another effective method of spreading the good news began to be used.
On April 16, 1922, Joseph F.
Rutherford made one of his first radio broadcasts, speaking to an estimated 50,000 people.
Then, on February 24, 1924, the organization’s first radio station, WBBR, began broadcasting.
Some portions of the Bible were initially directed to one individual or group.
That is why, before reading God’s Word, we do well to pray for an open mind and for wisdom to discern the lessons that Jehovah wants us to learn.
As you read a Bible passage, take time to pause and ask yourself such questions as these: What does this tell me about Jehovah?
How can I apply this information in my life?
How can I use it to help others?
When we reflect on such questions, we will surely get more out of our Bible reading.
As an example, think about the Scriptural qualifications for Christian elders.
Since the majority of us do not serve as elders, we might initially think that this passage would have little application to our own life.
However, this list of qualifications can benefit all of us in a number of ways.
It has been said that man’s necessities are few, but his wants are infinite.
It seems that many cannot see the difference between material needs and wants.
What is the difference?
A need is something you must have because your life depends on it.
Food, clothing, and shelter—these are legitimate necessities.
A want is something you would like to have, but it is not essential for everyday living.
What people want may vary considerably, depending on where they live.
In developing countries, many may simply want to have enough money to buy a cell phone, a motorbike, or a small plot of land.
In wealthier lands, the urge may be to acquire a lavish wardrobe, a bigger house, or a more expensive automobile.
In any case, herein lies a real danger—becoming ensnared by materialism, wanting more and more things, whether we need them or not and whether we can afford them or not.
Many are so wrapped up in their mundane affairs of life that they are not conscious of their spiritual need.
They are engrossed in the material attractions of the world that foster the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes.
Instead of the world’s spirit, we welcome in our life the influence of God’s spirit by which Jehovah has given us a clear understanding of the events that lie ahead of us.
Yet, we realize that it does not take anything extraordinary to make a person spiritually drowsy—the ordinary things of life will do that if allowed to crowd out our spiritual activities.
Others may ridicule us for keeping on the watch, but that is no reason for us to lose our sense of urgency.
Instead, we must regularly associate with fellow Christians at our congregation meetings, where God’s spirit is present.
The apostle Peter wrote those words to encourage Christians to endure the hardships heaped on them by Satan.
The experiences of those who have endured teach us how to remain steadfast and remind us that our faithful course will be rewarded.
Perhaps you face bitter opposition, even persecution, from enemies of true worship.
Or you are a congregation elder or a circuit overseer who feels the weight of your heavy responsibilities.
Meditate on the example of Paul.
He faced numerous things of an external kind by vicious persecutors, and he felt daily pressure on account of his anxiety for the congregations.
Yet, he refused to give up, and his example strengthened others.
When you endure hardship, remember that your example is likely encouraging others to endure.
We cannot develop faith simply by our own willpower.
Faith is an aspect of the fruitage of God’s holy spirit.
Thus, we are wise to follow Jesus counsel about praying for more of that spirit because Jesus assures us that the Father will give holy spirit to those asking him.
Once our faith is established, we must continue to nourish it.
Our faith might be compared to a wood fire.
When the fire is started, it may come roaring to life in an intense blaze.
However, if nothing more is done to the fire, it will eventually die down to hot coals that, in turn, will become cold ashes if left alone.
But if you regularly feed the fire with more wood, it can be kept going indefinitely.
So, too, our faith can be kept alive if we regularly feed on God’s Word.
By progressively studying the Bible, we can develop a deep love for it and its Author, and that will become the basis for building more faith.
It is difficult to imagine the wonders that Jehovah has in store for anointed Christians when they are seated on thrones to rule with Christ in heaven.
They will make up the New Jerusalem, the bride of Christ.
They will share with Jesus in the healing of the nations, directing obedient humans to the means to become free from the burden of sin and death and raising them to perfection.
One of the greatest earthly demonstrations of Jehovah’s marvelous kindness will be the resurrection of humans from the Grave.
Faithful men and women of old who died before Christ’s sacrificial death, as well as all those other sheep who die faithful during the last days, will be brought back to life to continue serving Jehovah.
We can contribute to the spiritual cleanness of the congregation by following the direction found in God’s Word.
Consider the situation in ancient Corinth.
Paul had poured himself out preaching in that city, and he loved his fellow holy ones there.
But how troubling it must have been for him to have to address the problem of sexual immorality that was being tolerated in that congregation! Paul directed the elders to hand the immoral man over to Satan—in other words, to disfellowship him.
To preserve the congregation’s purity, the elders needed to clear out the leaven.
When we support the elders decision to disfellowship an unrepentant wrongdoer, we help to maintain the cleanness of the congregation and perhaps move the person to repent and seek Jehovah’s forgiveness.
When the Jewish exiles entered ancient Babylon, they saw a city filled with idols and found a people enslaved to wicked spirits.
Nevertheless, faithful Jews, such as Daniel and his three companions, refused to be molded by the world of Babylon.
Daniel and his companions were determined to give exclusive devotion to Jehovah as their Potter.
And they succeeded! Daniel lived in Babylon nearly all his life; yet, God’s angel said that he was a very precious man.
In Bible times, a potter might press the clay into a mold so that it would take on the shape he desired.
True worshippers today recognize Jehovah as the Universal Sovereign, the one having authority to mold peoples and nations.
God also has the authority to mold us personally.
However, he recognizes our free will and wants us to submit to him voluntarily.
About 6,000 years ago, God’s will was being done perfectly on earth.
That is why Jehovah could look upon the fine start he had given to mankind and say: It was very good.
Then Satan rebelled, and ever since, comparatively few humans have done God’s will on earth.
But today we are privileged to be alive at a time when about eight million Witnesses not only are praying for God’s will to take place on earth but also are striving to live in harmony with that prayer.
They do so by their way of life and by having a zealous share in the disciple-making work.
Until the enemies of God’s Kingdom are removed from the earth, we will continue to pray for God’s will to be done.
Then we will see God’s will taking place in an even more complete way as billions are resurrected on a paradise earth.
What a wonderful time to be alive to welcome back our dead loved ones!
Jehovah also causes his creation to become whatever he chooses.
In line with the meaning of his name, God caused Noah to be an ark builder, Bezalel to be a master craftsman, Gideon to be a victorious warrior, and Paul to be an apostle to the nations.
Yes, God’s name has great meaning to his people.
And the New World Bible Translation Committee would never undermine the name’s significance by omitting it from the Bible.
Over 130 language editions of the New World Translation honor God’s name by including it where it belongs in the sacred text.
In contrast, the current trend in Bible translation is to omit the divine name, substituting a title such as Lord or the name of a local god.
This is a prime reason why the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses has given priority to making available to as many people as possible a Bible that honors God’s name.
Reflecting his Father, Christ, the power of God, frequently opened his hand and satisfied the desires of his followers.
His doing so was not merely an expression of power.
He was guided by his heartfelt concern for others.
Consider .
Jesus disciples came to him to discuss the food situation.
Not only may they themselves have been hungry but they were concerned about the plight of the famished and weary crowd that had followed Jesus on foot from the cities.
What would he do?
With five loaves and two fish, Jesus fed about 5,000 men, as well as women and children! The crowds ate and were satisfied.
This suggests that there was an abundant supply of food.
Jesus kindly provided, not a mere taste of bread, but a meal that would sustain the crowds for their long journey back home.
And 12 baskets were filled with the leftovers!
Suppose a beloved relative is disfellowshipped.
From your study of the Bible, you know how disfellowshipped ones are to be treated.
Yet, upholding the disfellowshipping decision may at times seem very difficult, even impossible.
Can you trust that your heavenly Father will give you the fortitude you need to be resolute in abiding by the Bible’s direction about disfellowshipping?
Do you see here an opportunity for you to make your relationship with Jehovah stronger by forming a closer bond with him?
Does this suggest that we should not have strong love for our relatives?
Of course not! But our strongest love should be for Jehovah.
This is actually in the best interests of our relatives, whether they are presently serving Jehovah or not.
And if you are particularly troubled over the course of a disfellowshipped relative, pour out your heart to Jehovah in prayer.
Feeling good about the works of others and even having a degree of pride in ourselves can be healthy.
We are not expected to be ashamed of our family, culture, or the region where we grew up.
On the other hand, there is a kind of pride that can eat away at relationships and damage our friendship with Jehovah.
Such pride can cause us to resent and reject needed counsel rather than humbly accept it.
This type of pride is defined as inordinate self-esteem or a haughty attitude shown by people who believe, often unjustifiably, that they are better than others.
Jehovah hates arrogant pride.
But Satan must delight to see humans display boastful pride, for it echoes his own arrogance.
How Satan must have reveled in the boasting of such men as Nimrod, Pharaoh, and Absalom—all of whom fell victim to improper pride!—.
Shortly before the remaining ones of the 144,000 are taken to heaven, Gog will attack God’s people.
What reaction does this provoke?
On earth, God’s people will appear to be defenseless.
They will obey the instructions given in the days of King Jehoshaphat: You will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position, stand still, and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
O Judah and Jerusalem, do not be afraid or be terrified.
In heaven, however, there is a different reaction.
Referring to the time when all the anointed are in heaven, tells us this about the enemies of God’s people: These will battle with the Lamb, but because he is Lord of lords and King of kings, the Lamb will conquer them.
Also, those with him who are called and chosen and faithful will do so.
Together with his 144,000 corulers in heaven, Jesus will come to the rescue of God’s people here on earth.
Our respect for the God who invites us to Christian meetings should be manifested in our decorum, dress, and grooming.
Respect also requires that we avoid extremes.
Jehovah wants his servants and other guests to feel comfortable at the Kingdom Hall.
At the same time, those in attendance would not want to detract from the meetings by being overly casual in their dress, by texting or talking during the meetings, by eating and drinking, and so on.
Parents should train their children to understand that the Kingdom Hall is not the place for running or playing.
Filled with indignation, Jesus threw out of God’s temple those who were introducing commercial activities.
Our Kingdom Halls too are places for pure worship and spiritual education.
So any business activities that have nothing to do with spiritual pursuits ought to be taken care of elsewhere.
Compare .
The Greek word translated devoting themselves implies enduring or persevering in a course with intense effort.
Under Roman rule and faced with opposition by the Jewish religious leaders, those early Christians did not find it easy to attend meetings.
Nevertheless, they persevered.
Many modern-day servants of Jehovah have shown deep appreciation for Christian meetings.
George Gangas, who served on the Governing Body for over 22 years, stated: To me, meeting with the brothers is one of life’s greatest pleasures and a source of encouragement.
He added: My innermost thought and desire is to attend the meetings.
Do you feel the same way about gathering together to worship Jehovah?
Then be determined to endure and persevere in your earnest efforts to attend meetings regularly.
You will thus show that you agree with King David, who said: Jehovah, I love the house where you dwell.
In the Bible, enduring means more than simply putting up with trials or adversity.
Endurance involves our mind and heart, or the way we react to hardships.
A person who endures manifests courage, steadfastness, and patience.
Endurance is the spirit which can bear things, not simply with resignation, but with blazing hope, says one reference work.
It is the quality which keeps a man on his feet with his face to the wind.
It is the virtue which can transmute the hardest trial into glory because beyond the pain it sees the goal.
Christian endurance is motivated by love.
Love for Jehovah motivates us to endure anything that is in harmony with his will.
Love for our brothers helps us to endure their imperfections.
Love for our marriage mate enables us to endure tribulation that even happily married couples experience and to strengthen the marital bond.
Down through history, Jehovah has provided specific instructions or directions.
For example, in the garden of Eden, Jehovah gave clear instructions that could guide the human family to everlasting life and happiness.
Had Adam and Eve obeyed his direction, they would have been spared tragic consequences—a life filled with pain and ending in their death with no hope.
But rather than obey, Eve listened to advice that seemed to come from a lowly animal.
Adam, in turn, listened to her voice, the voice of a mortal human.
Both of them turned their backs on their loving Father’s guidance.
Consequently, the human family in general was on a fatal path.
Today, Jehovah stands before his people, as it were, pointing them toward everlasting life, away from dangers.
More than that, he acts like a loving shepherd to his flock, calling out to the sheep proper direction and warnings so that they can avoid dangerous paths.
Through his written Word, Jehovah has given us a number of specific commands.
For example, he forbids sexual immorality, idolatry, stealing, and drunkenness.
Additionally, God’s Son, Jesus Christ, gave his followers this challenging, though thrilling, command: Go, and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the holy spirit, teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.
And look! I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.
What a protection divine laws and commandments have proved to be! Obeying them has increased our self-respect, contributed to good health, and enhanced family happiness.
More important, our loyal adherence to Jehovah’s commands, including the command to share in the preaching work, has brought us his approval and blessing.
As we yield to the guidance of God’s holy spirit and align our thinking with Jehovah’s viewpoint as revealed in his Word, we will become more godly in our thoughts, words, and actions.
Even then, we will need to remain on guard against succumbing to our particular weaknesses.
If your spiritual progress seems slow, remember that such growth takes time.
The cultivating of spiritual qualities is an ongoing process.
We must be patient as we endeavor to let the Bible continue to produce positive changes in our life.
At first, we may need to discipline ourselves to do what is Scripturally right.
In time, though, thinking and acting in a godly way will likely become easier and more natural for us as our thoughts and actions progressively line up with those of Jehovah God.
Think about how the preaching of the good news fits in with Jehovah’s loving purpose for humankind.
He purposed that humans would inhabit the earth without ever dying; though Adam sinned, Jehovah did not change His mind.
Instead, he arranged for humans to be delivered from condemnation to sin and death.
Working along with that purpose, Jesus came to earth and sacrificed his life for obedient humans.
In order to become obedient, however, they had to understand what God required of them.
So Jesus also taught people what God’s requirements are, and he commanded his disciples to do the same.
By helping others to become reconciled to God, we share directly in his loving arrangement to rescue mankind from sin and death.
This also demonstrates our love both for our fellow man and for Jehovah, whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
If you have strong conviction, it is reasonable to expect that you will show it by your actions.
Young ones must also manifest holy acts of conduct.
To do so, you must be morally clean.
How are you doing in that regard?
For example, think about the past six months.
How have you demonstrated that your powers of discernment have been trained to distinguish right from wrong?
Can you think of specific occasions when you resisted temptation or peer pressure?
Does your conduct at school speak well of your faith?
Do you stand up for your faith rather than try to blend in with your classmates just to avoid ridicule?
Admittedly, no one is perfect.
Even longtime servants of Jehovah may at times feel timid about taking a public stand for their faith.
However, a person who is dedicated to Jehovah will rightly be proud to bear God’s name, and he shows this by his conduct.
Abner supported Saul’s efforts to kill David, even though Abner knew that God had chosen David to rule as king of Israel.
After Saul’s death, Abner could have shown humility and proved his loyalty to God by supporting David, not Saul’s son Ish-bosheth.
Later, when Abner had relations with King Saul’s concubine, he may have been seeking the throne for himself.
Similarly, lack of humility prevented David’s son Absalom from being loyal to God.
Why, Absalom acquired for himself a chariot and horses and 50 men to run before him! He also stole the people’s loyalty.
Like Abner, Absalom sought to kill David, even though he knew that Jehovah had appointed David as Israel’s king.
The examples of Abner and Absalom make it clear that inordinate ambition can easily cause a person to become disloyal to God.
Surely, no faithful servant of Jehovah would pursue such a selfish and wicked course.
Seeing Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies, just as Jesus had prophesied, Christians in Judea, and especially those living in Jerusalem, had to act decisively.
Jesus had warned them that they would need to flee as soon as they saw these events start to unfold.
In the 28 years since Jesus had uttered that prophecy, the faithful Jewish Christians living in Israel had already faced much opposition and persecution successfully.
Yet, Paul knew that they were about to be confronted with one of the most challenging tests of their faith.
He wanted them to be prepared for whatever might come their way.
They would need exceptional endurance and faith—faith strong enough to preserve their lives.
So Paul was prompted by Jehovah’s spirit to write those dear brothers and sisters a letter designed to meet their special needs.
That letter is now known as the book of Hebrews.
Do you find that it is often a challenge to come up with delightful words?
If so, you may need to enlarge your vocabulary.
One way to do this is to take note of how words are used in the Bible and in our Christian publications.
Learn the meanings of unfamiliar expressions.
More important, learn how to use words in a way that helps others.
Regarding the relationship between Jehovah and his firstborn Son, we read: Jehovah has given me Jesus the tongue of those taught, so that I may know how to answer the tired one with the right word.
Taking time to meditate on what we are going to say can help us to find the right words.
We could ask ourselves, Will these words really convey what I want to say? What effect will my choice of words have on my listener?
Do those of the other sheep need to know the names of all those who are anointed today?
The short answer is no.
Why not?
Because even if someone has received the heavenly calling, that person has received only an invitation, not a final confirmation of the reward.
That is why Satan raises up false prophets to mislead, if possible, even the chosen ones.
No one can know whether an anointed Christian will receive his heavenly reward until Jehovah judges that person to be worthy of such a prize.
Jehovah makes this determination and gives him the final sealing either sometime before he dies faithful or sometime before the outbreak of the great tribulation.
It would be pointless, then, for anyone now living on earth to try to ascertain who among God’s servants will eventually be part of the 144,000.
We cannot properly accept God’s love without recognizing our obligation to love our brothers.
How can we demonstrate our love in practical ways?
Consider the example of Jesus.
During his earthly ministry, he gave special attention to lowly ones.
He reached out to those with physical infirmities—the lame, the blind, the deaf, and the speechless.
Jesus took pleasure in teaching spiritually hungry ones, those who were viewed by the Jewish religious leaders as accursed people.
He loved these lowly ones and worked hard to minister to them.
Can you consider the brothers and sisters in your own congregation?
No doubt you will see some who could benefit from your love.
Perhaps there are elderly ones who need help.
We must let God’s love move us to reach out and express our love for our brothers.
For your relationship with Jehovah to be real, you must be convinced that he is hearing prayers.
Consider this: From his prehuman existence, Jesus observed firsthand Jehovah’s response to the prayers of His human servants.
Then, during his earthly ministry, Jesus used prayer as his means of communicating his feelings to his Father in heaven.
Would he have done so—even spending an entire night in prayer—had he thought that Jehovah was not really listening?
Would he have taught his disciples to pray had he thought that prayer was nothing more than a psychological crutch?
Clearly, Jesus knew that prayer is real communication with Jehovah.
We too can have confidence that Jehovah is the Hearer of prayer.
When you pray humbly in the presence of your children, they will learn to rely on Jehovah.
Ana, who lives in Brazil, states: When there were problems, such as when my grandparents were ill, my parents would ask Jehovah to give them the strength to cope with the situation and the wisdom to make good decisions.
Even when under terrible pressure, they left their problems in Jehovah’s hands.
As a result, I learned to rely on Jehovah.
When you pray with your children, do not pray just for them.
Ask Jehovah to help you too—perhaps to help you speak to your employer about getting time off for a convention, to give you courage to witness to your neighbor, or to help you in other ways.
Humbly rely on God, and your children will learn to do so too.
As parents, your example of faith is very important.
Your children will observe what you do, and it certainly will affect them for the good.
So as parents, keep building your own faith.
Let your children see how real Jehovah is to you.
When a couple in Bermuda have anxious moments, they pray with their children that Jehovah guide them, and they encourage their children to pray on their own.
We also tell our older daughter, Have complete trust in Jehovah, keep busy in Kingdom service, and do not worry too much.
When she sees the outcome, she knows that Jehovah is helping us.
This has done wonders for her faith in God and in the Bible.
In the end, of course, children have to develop their own faith.
As parents, you can plant and water.
Only God can make it grow.
So pray for his spirit, and work hard to teach your precious children, for by doing so, you give Jehovah much to bless.
Even if we had a difficult childhood or if our present circumstances seem hopeless, we need to keep contending and persevering.
We can trust that if we do so, Jehovah will bless us.
Think of a situation that you are facing and that may be a trial for you.
Perhaps it is some type of injustice, prejudice, or ridicule.
Or the trial you face may be that someone falsely accuses you, perhaps out of jealousy.
Rather than drop your hands in defeat, remember what enabled Jacob, Rachel, and Joseph to continue serving Jehovah with joy.
God strengthened and blessed them because they kept on showing deep appreciation for spiritual things.
They kept on contending and acting in harmony with their earnest prayers.
We are living close to the end of the present wicked system of things; thus, we have strong reason to hold on to the firm hope set before us! Are you willing to exert yourself to gain Jehovah’s favor?
Less than a century after the Christian congregation was established, a foretold apostasy began to develop.
Thereafter, it became increasingly difficult to identify who was truly serving God at his spiritual temple.
Only centuries later did the time arrive for Jehovah to clarify matters by means of his newly enthroned King, Jesus Christ.
By 1919, those approved by Jehovah and serving at his spiritual temple were clearly identified.
They had been spiritually refined in order to make their service to God even more acceptable to him.
What the apostle Paul had foreseen centuries before in a vision began to be fulfilled in a limited way.
We find Paul’s vision described at .
What Paul saw in a supernatural vision was referred to as a revelation.
It involved a future event, not something that existed in his day.
In 1914, war broke out between nations of Europe—a war that spread and engulfed the whole world.
By the time it ended in 1918, terrible food shortages had been experienced and there was a flu epidemic in which more people died than were killed in the war.
Thus the sign that Jesus had given to identify his invisible presence as earth’s new King started to be fulfilled.
Ample evidence points to the year 1914 as the time when a crown was given to the Lord Jesus Christ.
He went out conquering and to complete his conquest.
He cleansed the heavens in a war against Satan and his demons, who were hurled down to the vicinity of the earth.
Ever since, mankind has experienced the truthfulness of the inspired words of today’s text.
As Christians we are encouraged by visualizing our hope, whether it is heavenly or earthly.
Can you see yourself enjoying the things that God has promised?
Contemplating what you may do as God fulfills his promises undoubtedly brings joy to your heart.
Perhaps you see yourself living on earth forever.
Think about cooperating with others in making this globe into a paradise.
Your neighbors love Jehovah, even as you do.
You are healthy, energetic, and have a bright outlook.
Those supervising the work of restoration make life a pleasure because they genuinely care about you.
And you are happy using your talents and skills because everything you do is benefiting others and honoring God.
For example, you are helping newly resurrected ones to come to know Jehovah.
No, this is not a dreamworld.
This appealing mental picture is based on Scriptural truths about the future.
As servants of Jehovah, we are not among those who are misled into thinking that Satan does not exist.
We know that the Devil is real, for it was Satan who spoke to Eve through a serpent.
Satan taunted Jehovah regarding Job.
It was Satan who tried to tempt Jesus.
And after the birth of God’s Kingdom in 1914, it was Satan who began to wage war with the remnant of anointed ones.
That war still rages as Satan seeks to destroy the faith of the remnant of the 144,000 and the other sheep.
To win the battle, we must take our stand against Satan and remain firm in the faith.
Satan is anything but humble.
In fact, for a spirit creature to have the audacity to challenge Jehovah’s sovereignty and set himself up as a rival god is the epitome of pride and presumptuousness.
Therefore, one way that we can take a stand against Satan is by shunning pride and cultivating humility.
If we maintain our Christian integrity, we may well witness one of the greatest miracles of all time—the miracle of surviving the great tribulation.
Soon after the war of Armageddon, more miracles will occur, restoring humans to good health.
Imagine watching people discard eyeglasses, canes, crutches, wheelchairs, hearing aids, and the like.
Armageddon survivors will have work to do.
They can move forward with zest to make our planet, a gift from God, into a global paradise.
Jesus healings in the past encourage the great crowd today, reinforcing their joyous prospect of being healed of all ills.
Those healings reflected his deep feelings and showed just how much love God’s firstborn Son has for mankind.
Jesus compassion paints a touching portrait of Jehovah’s concern for each one of his servants.
Jesus miraculously provided a large amount of fine wine, enough for a sizable group.
It is of interest that when the Devil tempted Jesus to turn stones into loaves of bread, Christ refused to use his miraculous power to satisfy his personal desires.
But he did use his power to respond to and satisfy the needs of others.
How can we imitate Jesus unselfish concern for others?
He encouraged God’s servants to practice giving.
Can we show the noble quality of generosity by inviting others to our home to share a meal and a spiritual feast?
Can we be generous with our time after a meeting, aiding someone in need, such as by listening to a brother practice his talk?
What help might we be able to offer to those needing assistance in the ministry?
We show that we have learned from Jesus by generously providing material and spiritual things to others as we are able.
Circuit overseers around the world have noted that in many congregations, more needs to be done to train brothers—younger and older—to help care for the flock.
This presents a challenge.
Why is that the case?
If you are a Christian elder, you no doubt realize that personal training is important.
You know that more brothers are needed to keep existing congregations spiritually strong and to allow new congregations to be formed.
You also know that God’s Word urges you to teach others.
Even so, you may find it hard to do so.
After you have taken care of family needs, job requirements, congregation responsibilities, and other urgent matters, there just seems to be no time left to train others in the congregation.
Yet, training is needed in order for them to share the workload.
And as that is accomplished, everyone will benefit.
Bible accounts highlight the privilege we have of showing brotherly affection and serving one another.
The Son of God gave everything, including his life, in ministering to others.
Dorcas abounded in good deeds and gifts of mercy.
Mary, a sister in Rome, worked hard in behalf of those in the congregation.
How can we help new ones grasp the importance of helping their brothers and sisters?
Mature Witnesses can invite new ones to come along when visiting the sick and the elderly.
If appropriate, parents can take their children on such visits.
Elders can work with others in making sure that our dear older ones have good food and that their homes are maintained.
In these ways, younger ones and those newly associated learn to perform acts of kindness for others and to appreciate that all in the congregation should feel loved.
A newly appointed brother should not feel that as soon as he receives some responsibility in the congregation, he needs to use it to change course—to do things in a way that is completely different from the way they were done before.
The need for change is determined, not by one’s desire for change, but by the needs of the congregation and the direction we receive from Jehovah’s organization.
So if you are appointed, reassure your fellow believers and show respect for experienced elders by continuing to use their Bible-based methods.
However, as you gain experience, you will no doubt share in applying changes that will help the congregation to stay in tune with Jehovah’s progressive organization.
In fact, Jehovah may in time move all you faithful learners to do even greater works than those of your teachers.
If you were one of the disciples who experienced that, you would never forget that day.
There would be no question in your mind that you were anointed by holy spirit, especially if you also received the miraculous gift of speaking in a foreign language.
But do all those who are anointed by holy spirit receive their anointing in the same spectacular manner as that first group of about 120 disciples did?
No.
The rest of those who were present in Jerusalem that day received their anointing at their baptism.
There was no tongue as if of fire above their heads.
Furthermore, not all anointed Christians receive their anointing at their baptism.
The Samaritans received their anointing by holy spirit sometime after their baptism.
On the other hand, in an exceptional instance, Cornelius and his household were anointed by holy spirit even before they were baptized.
Modestly, anointed ones acknowledge that they do not necessarily have more holy spirit than those with an earthly hope.
They do not claim to have special knowledge or revelations; neither do they try to prove that they are in some way superior.
They would also never suggest to others that these too have been anointed and should start partaking; rather, they would humbly acknowledge that it is Jehovah who does the calling of anointed ones.
Anointed Christians do not expect any special honor from others.
Jehovah’s spirit bore witness to them personally.
No announcement was made to the world.
So they are not surprised if some people do not readily believe that they have truly been anointed by holy spirit.
In fact, the Scriptures advise against quickly believing someone who claims to have a special appointment from God.
Even when someone says something offensive, responding with gracious words can have positive results.
For example, the teenage son of a single mother was leading a double life.
A well-meaning Christian sister said to the mother: It’s too bad you have failed at child training.
The mother thought for a moment and responded: It’s true that things are not going well right now, but his training is a work in progress.
Talk to me after Armageddon; then we will know for sure.
This mild response helped to maintain peace between the sisters, and it encouraged the son, who overheard the conversation.
He realized that his mother had not given up on him.
This moved him to stop his bad associations.
In time, he got baptized, and he later served at Bethel.
Whether in the company of our brothers, our family, or strangers, we should always let our words be gracious, seasoned with salt.
Every year thousands of young people around the world get baptized.
Christian parents and elders in the congregation want to make sure that such young ones make a decision that is not only voluntary but also well-founded.
The steps of dedication and baptism are the start of a life during which Christians will experience blessings from Jehovah but also opposition from Satan.
Therefore, Christian parents take time to teach their children what is involved in being a disciple of Christ.
In the case of young ones who have no Christian parents, the elders in the congregation will lovingly help them to count the cost of discipleship.
Just as it takes planning to complete a building project successfully, so it requires preparation to serve Jehovah faithfully to the end.
The Mosaic Law was given to one nation—fleshly Israel.
In contrast, spiritual Israel would be made up of people from many nations and backgrounds.
The Mosaic Law governed fleshly Israel in the Promised Land with laws carved on stone.
For spiritual Israel, the law of the Christ was mainly based on principles inscribed on hearts.
The law of the Christ would apply to and benefit Christians wherever they lived.
Spiritual Israel would benefit greatly from guidance from God through his Son.
Just prior to the establishment of the new covenant, Jesus gave two significant commands.
One dealt with the preaching work.
The other focused on the conduct of Jesus followers and how they were to treat fellow believers.
These directives were for all Christians; thus they apply to all true worshippers today, whether their hope is heavenly or earthly.
More than once, Jehovah stepped in and protected Abraham and Sarah, even doing so miraculously.
Those experiences strengthened Abraham’s faith.
Can we build a friendship with Jehovah?
We can indeed! The needed knowledge and experience are readily available.
Abraham had only a fraction of the abundant riches of wisdom now contained in the Bible.
God’s Word is full of treasures that can deepen our knowledge about the Maker of heaven and earth and help us to build respect and love for him.
As such feelings move us to obey God, we gain experience because we see how obeying him works out.
We find that his counsel protects us and that he blesses and strengthens us.
We learn that wholehearted service to God brings fulfillment, peace, and joy.
As we grow in such knowledge and experience, our faith in Jehovah and our friendship with him grow as well.
Those words reveal that Mary knew the inspired Scriptures well.
Her words seem to echo some that were spoken in prayer by Hannah, the mother of the prophet Samuel.
By one estimate, Mary made some 20 references to the Scriptures in her speech.
Clearly, she was a woman who spoke freely about spiritual things.
Mary drew liberally from the treasure trove in her heart, a storehouse of precious truths that she had learned from her greatest Friend, Jehovah God.
Like Mary, we may at times find that we receive assignments from Jehovah that seem challenging.
Like her, let us humbly put ourselves in Jehovah’s hands, trusting in him to act in our best interests.
We can imitate Mary’s faith by listening carefully to what we are learning about Jehovah and his purposes, by meditating on spiritual truths, and by joyously telling others about what we have learned.
If you are crushed by the discouraging words of a friend or family member, are plagued by a serious illness, or are grieved by the death of a loved one, you can find comfort in the example of Job.
Although he was unaware of the source of his troubles, Job did not give up in despair.
Why not?
For one thing, he feared God.
Job was determined to please Jehovah in favorable and unfavorable circumstances.
With God’s help, Job reflected on the wondrous things Jehovah had already accomplished by means of His holy spirit.
Job became even more confident that Jehovah would end his trials at the right time.
And that is precisely what happened.
Jehovah removed Job’s tribulation and restored his prosperity.
Jehovah gave him double what he had before.
Job lived a long and satisfying life.
We show caution by recognizing dangers early, and we remain innocent by not letting them lead us into compromise.
We must exercise caution when political issues are brought up.
For example, when presenting the Kingdom message, avoid either praising or criticizing the policies of a political party or leader.
Try to establish common ground with the householder by focusing on the underlying problem rather than on any proposed political solution.
Then, show from the Bible how God’s government will solve the problem completely and permanently.
If such volatile issues as same-sex marriage or abortion come up, defend God’s standards and explain how we follow these in our own lives.
During the discussion, remain strictly neutral on the political aspects of these topics.
We take no position regarding what laws should be enacted, repealed, or changed, and we do not pressure others to agree with our view.
An elder should start his training of another brother by taking time to develop a relaxed atmosphere and a bond of friendship with him.
The specific steps an elder takes will differ somewhat from land to land, depending on local circumstances and customs.
Yet, no matter where you live, if you as a busy elder set aside time to spend with a learner, you are telling him, in effect, You are important to me.
That unspoken message will be clearly understood and deeply valued by willing learners everywhere.
A successful teacher is someone who not only loves to train another person but also loves the person he is training.
Compare .
That crucial aspect of a teacher’s disposition is quickly discerned by a learner and greatly affects the way he responds to the training he receives.
Therefore, dear elders, as you give training, be more than a teacher—be a friend.
Suppose clarifying details concerning King Azariah King Uzziah had not been included in God’s Word, as is the case with other abbreviated Bible accounts?
Would you be inclined to question the righteousness of God?
Or would you reason that the Bible contains enough information to assure us that Jehovah always does what is right and is, in fact, the very standard of what is right and what is wrong?
As we get to know Jehovah better as a Person, our love and appreciation for his ways will grow to the point that we do not need an explanation for everything he does.
Be assured that such appreciation will grow in proportion to your efforts to study and meditate on God’s communication through his written Word.
This, in turn, will strengthen your relationship with Jehovah, making it ever more real.
By giving a list of qualifications for overseers, Jehovah reveals that he has a high standard for those who serve in an appointed capacity.
He expects them to set a good example, and he holds them accountable for the way they treat the congregation, which he purchased with the blood of his own Son.
Jehovah wants us to feel safe in the care of the appointed undershepherds.
From that standpoint, the Scriptural qualifications for Christian elders remind us of how much Jehovah truly cares for us.
In fact, each Christian can learn from the qualifications listed in these verses, as most of them involve things that Jehovah asks of all Christians.
For instance, all of us should be reasonable and sound in mind.
As elders prove to be examples to the flock, we can learn from them and imitate their faith.
To acquaint ourselves with Jehovah’s thinking, we need to make personal study a priority.
When reading or studying God’s Word, we might ask ourselves, What does this material reveal about Jehovah, his righteous ways, and his thinking?
We need to have an attitude like that of the psalmist David, who sang: Make me know your ways, O Jehovah; teach me your paths.
Cause me to walk in your truth and teach me, for you are my God of salvation.
In you I hope all day long.
As you meditate on a Bible passage, you might consider questions like these: How can I apply this information in my family?
Where can I apply it?
At home?
At work?
At school?
In the ministry?
Once we have determined where the material can be applied, it may become easier to perceive how we can put it to work.
Reflecting on that verse may help you to appreciate in a very personal way that Jehovah loves and cares for you.
Be assured that you do matter to Jehovah.
We should value the Bible highly because God communicates with us primarily by means of it.
Meaningful and compassionate communication between parents and their children is essential to building mutual trust and developing a feeling of being loved.
What can we expect of Jehovah?
Although we have never seen him or heard his voice, he speaks to us through his inspired Word, and we need to listen.
Jehovah desires to guide us, his dedicated people, and to protect us from harm.
He also wants us to know him and to put our trust in him.
How can we fight Satan and win?
Jesus told his disciples: By your endurance you will preserve your lives.
Nothing that any human can do will cause us permanent harm.
Nobody can take away our precious friendship with God unless we allow that to happen.
Even the death of Jehovah’s servants does not score a victory for Satan, for Jehovah will see to it that they are resurrected! On the other hand, Satan’s prospects are bleak indeed.
After the destruction of his ungodly system, Satan will be abyssed for 1,000 years.
At the end of Jesus Thousand Year Reign, Satan will be released from his prison for a short time to make a final attempt to mislead perfect mankind.
After that, the Devil will be destroyed.
Satan faces certain doom, but that is not true of you! Take your stand against Satan, firm in the faith.
You can fight Satan and win!
How will the great tribulation begin?
The book of Revelation answers by describing the destruction of Babylon the Great.
How appropriate that all false religion is likened to a prostitute! The clergy have prostituted themselves with the leaders of this wicked world.
Instead of loyally supporting Jesus and his Kingdom, they have given their support to human rulers and have compromised godly principles just to gain political influence.
They stand in stark contrast with the clean, virginlike anointed ones of God.
But who will destroy the harlotlike organization?
Jehovah God will put his thought into the hearts of the ten horns of the scarlet-colored wild beast.
These horns represent all the present political powers that give support to the United Nations, an organization pictured by the scarlet-colored wild beast.
Despite what Satan did in Eden, Jehovah held out hope for mankind in the first Bible prophecy.
God would send one who would crush the Devil and provide the means for obedient mankind to enjoy the prospect that the first human pair lost—that of living forever on the earth in keeping with Jehovah’s original purpose.
The rebellion of Adam and Eve had an impact on their marriage and on all marriages thereafter.
For example, Eve and her female descendants would experience much pain during pregnancy and childbirth.
Women would have a longing for their husbands, but men would dominate their wives, even abusively, as we see in many marriages today.
The Bible requires that husbands exercise headship in a loving way.
In turn, wives are to submit to the headship of their husbands.
Because of cooperation between God-fearing mates, situations that cause friction are kept to a minimum or eliminated entirely.
Our being able to conceive of events that we have not lived through can help us to imitate Jehovah’s wisdom and foresee the probable results of our actions.
If Jehovah chooses to do so, he can foresee in detail the results of certain actions.
We do not have that degree of foresight, but we do well to think about what could happen as a result of what we are about to do.
To imitate God’s wisdom, we would do well to think about or even visualize the likely consequences of our actions.
If we are courting, for example, we need to recognize the power of sexual attraction.
Never would we make plans or do anything that could endanger our precious relationship with Jehovah! Instead, let us act in harmony with these inspired words: The shrewd one sees the danger and conceals himself, but the inexperienced keep right on going and suffer the consequences.
If you struggle with temptation to engage in sexual immorality, what can you do?
Acknowledge your weakness.
Pray to God for strength.
Avoid situations that could lead to immorality.
And when a temptation arises, reject it without delay.
Jesus set a powerful example for us in resisting temptations.
He was not fooled by Satan’s promises, nor did he have to take time to weigh the pros and cons.
Rather, he immediately responded with the words: It is written.
Jesus knew God’s Word, and that made it possible for him to act quickly and quote scriptures in the face of temptation.
To fight Satan and win, we must not allow ourselves to be tempted to engage in sexual immorality.
This does not mean that the Devil kills all people directly.
However, his murderous spirit has permeated this world.
Moreover, because Eve believed Satan’s lie and Adam disobeyed God, sin and death spread to all mankind.
In that sense, the Devil has had the means to cause death.
He is what Jesus called him—a murderer.
What a powerful enemy we have in Satan! When we oppose Satan, we align ourselves against not only him but all those who side with him in the issue of universal sovereignty.
That number includes a sizable group of other spirit rebels, or demons.
Time and again, the demons have demonstrated their superhuman strength, causing great misery to those whom they have tormented.
Never underestimate the power of such wicked angels or that of the ruler of the demons.
Without help from Jehovah, we could never win our fight against Satan.
We can imitate Jesus gracious speech by being kind, courteous, and considerate of others feelings.
Seeing the effort a crowd made to hear him speak, Jesus was moved with pity and started to teach them many things.
Even when he was being insulted, Jesus did not resort to harsh speech.
Speaking with mildness and tact can be a challenge when our listener is someone whom we know very well.
We might feel at liberty to be very frank.
That can be true whether we speak with a family member or a close friend in the congregation.
Did Jesus feel that his close relationship with his disciples granted him liberty to speak harshly to them?
Not at all! When his closest followers continued to argue over who was greater, Jesus corrected them with kind words and an illustration of a young child.
Elders can imitate Jesus example by giving counsel in a spirit of mildness.
Loyalty is almost universally admired.
However, we would miss a vital lesson if we were to admire Jonathan’s loyalty to David without taking into account his loyalty to God.
Why did Jonathan view David as a friend rather than a rival?
Loyalty to God had first place in Jonathan’s heart.
Indeed, loyalty to Jehovah was the very basis for his loyalty to David.
And both men loyally lived up to their sworn oath.
As Christians, we do not merely admire loyalty in others; we ourselves are loyal to family members, friends, and fellow worshippers.
But what loyalty should take first place in our heart?
Why, it is loyalty to the One who gave us life! Maintaining that loyalty gives us true joy and satisfaction.
But if we are to prove loyal to God, we must stick to him even through difficult trials.
Picture an elderly man trudging up a mountainside.
He is making what must be the hardest journey of his life.
It is not his age that makes this trek so daunting.
Abraham may be about 125 years old, but he is still vigorous.
Following him is a younger man, perhaps 25 years of age.
It is his son Isaac, who is carrying firewood.
Abraham has a knife and the means to start a fire.
Jehovah has asked him to sacrifice his own son! Abraham was facing what was likely the greatest test of his faith.
Abraham did not obey God blindly.
Instead, he obeyed because he could see.
With eyes of genuine faith, he saw that his heavenly Father, Jehovah, never asks His faithful servants to do anything that will result in their lasting harm.
Abraham knew that if he obeyed Jehovah, his God would bless him and his beloved son.
On what was that faith based?
On knowledge and experience.
Much of what is produced by this world’s media can be spiritually dangerous to Christians.
Such material is not designed to build faith in Jehovah and his promises.
Instead, it reflects Satan’s evil world and its goals.
Therefore, we need to exercise great caution so that we do not choose material that could arouse worldly desires.
In contrast with what the world produces, the material produced by Jehovah’s organization in these last days encourages conduct that leads to eternal life.
How blessed we are to have magazines, brochures, books, videos, and Web pages that promote true worship! God’s organization also provides regular meetings in more than 110,000 congregations worldwide.
At those meetings and at assemblies and conventions, we consider Bible-based material that builds faith in God and his promises.
Having regular communication with Jehovah is a vital part of drawing close to him.
How can you communicate with God?
You talk to Jehovah by means of your frequent prayers to him.
And you allow Jehovah to talk to you, as it were, when you regularly read his written Word and meditate on it.
When you are specific in your prayers, you become more keenly aware of Jehovah’s answers, even though they may be subtle.
Answered prayers will make Jehovah more real to you.
In addition, the more you express your innermost concerns to Jehovah, the closer he will draw to you.
Developing a closer relationship with Jehovah is a lifetime pursuit.
We must take steps to draw close to God if we want him to take corresponding action toward us.
By all means, then, let us remain in regular communication with our God by means of Bible study and prayer.
As a result, our ever-growing relationship with Jehovah will enable us to meet our trials successfully.
Personal interests and pleasures will have their place in God’s new world.
After all, why did Jehovah create us with a hunger for personal accomplishment and wholesome pleasures if he did not intend to have us satisfy these desires to the full?
In this and other ways, Jehovah will always satisfy the desire of every living thing.
Recreation and relaxation have their place, but the pleasure derived from them is increased when we put our relationship with Jehovah first.
It will also be that way in the earthly Paradise.
How wise it is for us to learn to keep personal interests in their proper place while we seek first the Kingdom and focus on the spiritual blessings now available to Jehovah’s people! In the coming Paradise, we will attain happiness on a level that we have never before experienced.
May we show the intensity of our desire for the real life by preparing for it now.
For the composite sign of Christ’s presence to serve its purpose, the fulfillment of it would have to be obvious enough to command the attention of those who have been obeying Jesus counsel to keep on the watch.
And that has been the case since 1914.
From that time onward, the features of the sign have been undergoing fulfillment.
Clearly, we are now living in the conclusion of the system of things—a limited period of time leading up to and including the destruction of this wicked system.
Why, then, should Christians today keep in expectation?
Out of obedience to Jesus Christ, we remain in expectation.
Also, we recognize the sign of his presence.
Our expectations are based, not on a naive readiness to believe anything, but on solid Scriptural evidence that compels us to remain vigilant, awake, watchful and, yes, in expectation of this wicked system’s end.
The war of Armageddon will lead to the magnifying of Jehovah’s holy name.
At that time, all goatlike ones will depart into everlasting cutting-off.
The earth will finally be cleansed of all wickedness, and the great crowd will pass through the final part of the great tribulation.
With these exciting events ahead of us, what should each of us now be doing?
The apostle Peter was inspired to write: Since all these things are to be dissolved in this way, consider what sort of people you ought to be in holy acts of conduct and deeds of godly devotion, as you await and keep close in mind the presence of the day of Jehovah Therefore, beloved ones, since you are awaiting these things, do your utmost to be found finally by him spotless and unblemished and in peace.
Let us, then, be resolved to remain spiritually clean, supporting the King of Peace.
How might we see Jehovah’s hand in our lives?
Consider: Perhaps you feel that the way you received the truth was clearly at God’s direction.
Have you ever attended Christian meetings, heard a part, and said: That was just what I needed?
Or you may have experienced an answer to a prayer.
Maybe you decided to expand your ministry and were amazed at how Jehovah helped to work things out for you.
Or have you ever experienced leaving a job for spiritual reasons and then seen the truth of God’s promise: I will never abandon you?
By being spiritually alert and pure in heart, we can discern how Jehovah has helped us in many ways.
How can we be pure in heart?
We must be clean on the inside and stop any wrong conduct.
As we cultivate stronger spirituality and manifest upright conduct, we put ourselves among those who can see God.
God’s servants have long understood that training contributes to success.
The patriarch Abram mobilized his trained men to rescue Lot—and the men succeeded.
In King David’s day, the singers for God’s house were trained in song to Jehovah and brought praise to God.
Today, we are fighting a spiritual war against Satan and his followers.
Also, we are exerting ourselves in our effort to bring praise to Jehovah.
Hence, like God’s servants in the past, to be successful we need to be trained.
In the congregation, Jehovah entrusts the elders with the responsibility of training others.
Before teaching a less experienced brother a set of skills, an elder may discern the need to share some nourishing Scriptural thoughts with him so as to make his heart more responsive to the training he will receive.
The wind and waves surrounding Peter as he walked on the water might be compared to the trials and temptations we face in our life of dedication to God.
Even when these are severe, we can stand firm with Jehovah’s support.
Recall that Peter did not sink because of a gust of wind or a big wave.
Think back on the sequence of events: Looking at the windstorm, he became afraid.
Peter lost his focus on Jesus, and then his faith wavered.
We could begin to sink if we were to begin looking at the windstorm, focusing on its power and doubting that Jehovah will support us.
We should take seriously the possibility that our faith could diminish, for the Bible refers to a weakening of faith or loss of faith as the sin that easily entangles us.
As Peter’s experience shows, our faith can quickly weaken if we focus on the wrong things.
Although Jesus disciples repeatedly argued about who was the greatest among them, Jesus did not give up on them.
He also did not ignore it when they failed to respond to his counsel.
Lovingly and mildly, Jesus reproved them at a suitable time and place.
Show your love for your children by disciplining them.
It is sometimes enough to explain why a certain course is right or wrong.
At other times, a child may fail to apply what you say.
When that happens, imitate Jesus.
At a fitting time and place, discipline your child lovingly and mildly through patient guidance, training, and correction.
My parents never disciplined me in anger or without explaining why I was being disciplined, says Elaine, a sister in South Africa.
As a result, I felt secure.
I knew my boundaries, and I understood what was required of me.
Whether people agree with us or bitterly oppose us, few would deny that as a group Jehovah’s Witnesses are well-known for their preaching activities.
It may even be that you have met people in your ministry who have stated that while they disagree with our beliefs, they respect us for the work we do.
As we know, Jesus foretold that the good news of the Kingdom would be preached in all the inhabited earth.
Many religious groups feel that they are preaching the Gospel, or good news.
However, their efforts are often limited to personal testimonies, church services, or programs broadcast through the media—whether by means of television or on the Internet.
Others point to their charitable activities or their endeavors in the fields of medicine and education.
How do these claims measure up when compared with what Jesus commanded his disciples to do?
What work must endurance complete?
It helps us to be complete and sound in all respects, not lacking in anything.
Trials often reveal our weaknesses, aspects of our personality that we need to refine.
If we endure those trials, however, our Christian personality becomes more complete, or sound.
For example, we may become more patient, appreciative, and compassionate.
Because endurance completes the vital work of molding us as Christians, do not compromise Scriptural principles to bring an end to tests that come your way.
For instance, what if you struggle with unclean thoughts?
Rather than give in to temptation, prayerfully reject such desires.
You will thus fortify your self-control.
Are you facing opposition from an unbelieving family member?
Instead of yielding under pressure, be determined to maintain your pattern of wholehearted worship.
Remember: To have God’s approval, we must endure.
We know that taking undue pride in tribe, culture, or nation puts us at odds with Jehovah’s view of human rule and the human family.
Of course, God does not expect us to renounce our culture.
In fact, cultural differences illustrate the marvelous diversity of the human family.
Still, we must remember that in God’s sight, all people are equal.
Taking undue pride in our place of origin is at the heart of nationalism and could be the first step on a path to compromise.
Christians are not immune to such pride, for even some in the first-century congregation discriminated against their brothers because of their nationality.
How can we tell if undue pride is taking root in us?
Suppose a brother or sister from another land offered you a suggestion.
Would you reject it, immediately thinking, We do things better around here’?
Instead, we should all apply the inspired counsel of today’s text.
Many of the problems addressed in our publications for young people are not unique to them.
All of us need to defend our faith, control our emotions, reject harmful peer pressure, and avoid unwholesome associations and entertainment.
These topics and many others have been addressed in material designed for teenagers.
Should adult Christians feel that it is demeaning for them to read publications directed to young people?
Not at all! Although the material is presented in a way that appeals to youths, the information is based on timeless Scriptural principles, and all of us can benefit from these spiritual provisions.
Besides helping young people to deal with problems, our publications help them to grow spiritually and draw close to Jehovah.
Here, too, adult Christians can benefit.
Jehovah our God is one Jehovah.
What a powerful statement! That reminder fortified the Israelites to confront the challenges facing them as they entered and took possession of the Promised Land.
Our taking those words to heart will empower us to face the great tribulation just ahead and contribute to the Paradise to follow.
Let us go on rendering exclusive devotion to Jehovah by loving and serving him whole-souled and putting forth earnest effort to maintain oneness in the Christian brotherhood.
If we continue to do so, we can look forward with confidence to seeing fulfilled what Jesus said about those whom he will judge as sheep: Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the founding of the world.
Since 1914, human governments have become rivals to God’s Kingdom, which will soon execute judgment on the nations by destroying them.
God lets the world’s political structure remain because it provides a measure of stability that, in turn, helps us to preach the good news of the Kingdom.
God even directs us to pray concerning those in authority, especially when their decisions might affect our worship.
We appeal to government authorities for fair treatment, as the apostle Paul did.
Although the Bible teaches that God’s adversary, Satan, has authority over political systems, it does not say that he directly controls each leader or official.
We should therefore avoid implying that a particular official is controlled by the Devil.
Instead, when dealing with governments and authorities, we speak injuriously of no one.
Jesus listeners were anxious about things they ought not be anxious about.
Jesus said to stop that—and for good reason.
Needless anxiety or worry, even about legitimate concerns, can divide a person’s mind and distract him, shutting out the more important spiritual matters of life.
Jesus was so concerned for his disciples that he warned them about this dangerous tendency four more times in his Sermon on the Mount.
Jesus was well-aware of people’s day-to-day needs.
More than that, he knew of the difficult conditions facing his disciples who centuries later would live during the last days, characterized by critical times hard to deal with.
Such conditions include unemployment, inflation, food shortages, and abject poverty that many experience.
Yet, Jesus also realized that life means more than food and the body than clothing.
The expression spiritual paradise has become a part of our theocratic vocabulary.
It describes our unique, spiritually rich environment, or condition, which allows us to enjoy peace with God and with our brothers.
Of course, we should not conclude that the terms spiritual paradise and spiritual temple are the same.
The spiritual temple is God’s arrangement for true worship.
The spiritual paradise serves to identify clearly those who have God’s approval and who are today serving him at his spiritual temple.
How exciting it is to know that since 1919, Jehovah has allowed imperfect humans to work with him in cultivating, strengthening, and expanding the spiritual paradise on earth! Do you see yourself playing a part in this marvelous work? Are you moved to continue working with Jehovah in glorifying the place for his feet’?
Marriage is very much a part of life.
A review of its origin and purpose can help us to have a proper view of this relationship and enjoy its intended blessings more fully.
After God created the first man, Adam, the animals were brought to him so that he could name them.
But for man there was no helper as a complement of him.
God therefore caused Adam to fall into a deep sleep, took a rib from him, built it into a woman, and brought her to the man.
Thus, marriage is of divine origin.
Jesus confirmed that it was Jehovah who stated: A man will leave his father and his mother and will stick to his wife, and the two will be one flesh.
God’s use of a rib from Adam in creating the first woman could have impressed on the first human couple the closeness of their union.
There was no arrangement for divorce or for having more than one mate at the same time.
Our enemies may attack us when we least expect it and kick us when we are at our lowest point, so we must ever remain alert.
The encouragement not to let ourselves be conquered by the evil shows that we can defeat evil.
We can do so if we keep on fighting against it.
In contrast, we could be overcome by Satan, his evil world, and our imperfect flesh if we let our guard down and quit fighting.
Never allow Satan to intimidate you into dropping your hands in defeat! To be successful, those who are contending must not lose sight of their reason for struggling.
To gain God’s approval and blessing, they should keep focused on the assurance that we read at : Whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.
The Greek verb translated earnestly seeking is a form that implies intensity and concerted effort.
Serious problems that persist in marriage may lead one mate or both mates to consider separation or divorce.
Separating from one’s marriage partner should not be viewed lightly.
Though separation may seem to be the answer when serious difficulties arise, it often causes more problems.
After repeating what God had stated about a man leaving his father and his mother and sticking to his wife, Jesus said: What God has yoked together, let no man put apart.
This also means that neither a husband nor a wife should put apart what God has yoked together.
Jehovah views marriage as a lifelong bond.
Bearing in mind that all of us will render an account to God should move marriage mates to make earnest efforts to resolve problems quickly so that these do not become more serious.
Children tend to have a vivid imagination.
So parents, try to use illustrations liberally in your teaching.
Effective illustrations can strengthen a child’s faith in the accuracy of the Bible.
For example, consider today’s text.
How might you show that this scripture was inspired?
You could just state facts.
Instead, why not stimulate your child’s imagination?
Bring up the fact that Job lived long before telescopes and spaceships.
Your child’s job could be to show how difficult it might be for some to believe that a very large object, such as the earth, could sit on nothing.
The child could use a ball or a stone to illustrate the point by showing that objects with mass have to rest on something.
Such a lesson would impress on your child that Jehovah had facts recorded in the Bible long before humans could prove them.
God’s Word provides practical guidance that can help us to make wise choices that will bring glory to God.
Still, what we wear involves some personal preference.
Our individual tastes vary, as do our financial resources.
But our clothes should always be neat, clean, modest, appropriate to the occasion, and acceptable locally.
We must admit that it is not always easy to make a decision that shows good judgment, that is sensible, and that takes all factors into account.
Many stores cater to popular fashions, so it may take more time and effort to find modest skirts, dresses, and blouses or suits and slacks that are not too tight.
Yet, fellow believers will likely note and appreciate the results of our sincere efforts to find attractive and appropriate clothing.
And the satisfaction we have of bringing glory to our loving heavenly Father more than makes up for any inconveniences that we may face to dress so as to glorify him.
When Daniel and his companions were exiled, the Babylonians tried to assimilate them into their culture by teaching them the language of the Chaldeans.
Moreover, the court official in charge of their training gave them Babylonian names.
The name given to Daniel referred to Bel, the main divinity of Babylon.
King Nebuchadnezzar likely wanted to impress Daniel with the idea that his God, Jehovah, had been subjected by Babylon’s god.
Although Daniel was offered food to eat from the king’s delicacies, he resolved in his heart that he would not defile himself.
Because he kept studying the sacred books in his mother tongue, he maintained his spiritual health while living in a foreign land.
Thus, some 70 years after his arrival in Babylon, he was still known by his Hebrew name.
Faith involves much more than a mental understanding of God’s purpose.
It is a powerful motivating force that impels a person to act in harmony with God’s will.
Faith in God’s means of salvation moves a believer to share the good news with others.
Our prospect of enjoying eternal life in God’s new world depends on our having faith and keeping it strong.
The need to keep our faith healthy can be likened to a plant’s need for water.
Unlike an artificial plant, a living plant keeps changing.
A live plant either withers because of a lack of water or continues to thrive with a regular supply of moisture.
If deprived of sufficient water, a once healthy plant will eventually die.
So, too, our faith.
It will wither and die if neglected.
But if we give it due attention, our faith will stay alive and keep growing, and we will be healthy in faith.
Just like Jesus early followers, we meet together to learn and to be encouraged.
Even experienced servants of God need encouragement.
Consider Joshua.
He had served God faithfully for many years.
Yet, Jehovah told Moses to encourage him, saying: Commission Joshua and encourage him and strengthen him, because he is the one who will cross over before this people and he is the one who will cause them to inherit the land that you will see.
Joshua was about to take on the huge responsibility of leading the Israelites in the conquest of the Promised Land.
He would face setbacks and at least one military defeat.
No wonder Joshua needed to be encouraged and strengthened! So let us personally encourage elders, including circuit overseers, who work hard to care for the flock of God.
What methods did Jesus and his disciples use to preach the good news?
They went to the people wherever they could be found—in public areas and in private homes.
The preaching work included searching for deserving ones from house to house.
This systematic method showed impartiality.
What has been the record of Jehovah’s Witnesses?
They are the only ones who preach that Jesus has been ruling as King since 1914.
As Jesus instructed, they place a high priority on the preaching work.
The book Pillars of Faith—American Congregations and Their Partners notes: Jehovah’s Witnesses never forget that their primary task is delivering a spiritual message about the coming end of the world and the necessity for salvation.
Jehovah’s Witnesses continue to deliver that message, using methods that Jesus and his disciples used.
When we base our decisions on Jehovah’s thinking, we draw closer to him.
We enjoy his approval and blessing.
This, in turn, strengthens our faith in our heavenly Father.
Therefore, let us be guided by Bible laws and principles, for they reveal God’s mind on matters.
Of course, we will always have something new to learn about Jehovah.
With diligent effort, however, we can even now acquire the wisdom, knowledge, and discernment needed to make wise decisions.
The ideas and plans of imperfect humans come and go, but the psalmist fittingly reminds us: The decisions of Jehovah will stand forever; the thoughts of his heart are from generation to generation.
Clearly, we can make the best personal decisions when our thoughts and actions are in harmony with the thinking of our all-wise God, Jehovah.
A few years ago, most congregations considered the book Draw Close to Jehovah at the Congregation Bible Study.
Did not that study of God’s qualities, along with the heartfelt comments of your brothers and sisters, strengthen your love for your heavenly Father?
We also increase our knowledge of God’s Word by paying careful attention to talks, demonstrations, and Bible readings.
Meetings teach us to apply Bible principles in all aspects of our life.
The Watchtower Study, for example, is tailored to the needs of God’s people.
Has a Watchtower Study motivated you to reevaluate your goals, to forgive a fellow Christian, or to improve the quality of your prayers?
The midweek meeting educates us for the ministry.
We learn how to preach the good news and how to teach Scriptural principles effectively.
Have you ever thought about the personal conflicts recorded in the Bible?
Consider just the first few chapters of Genesis.
Cain kills Abel ; Lamech kills a young man for striking him ; the shepherds of Abraham Abram and Lot quarrel ; Hagar despises Sarah Sarai, who becomes upset with Abraham ; Ishmael is against everyone and everyone’s hand is against him.
Why does the Bible mention such conflicts?
Well, one reason is that it helps imperfect humans learn why they need to keep peace.
It also shows us the way we can do this.
We benefit from reading Bible accounts about real people struggling with real problems.
We learn about the results of their efforts and may thus be able to apply such points to some situations we encounter in life.
Indeed, all of this helps us to consider how we should or should not deal with similar issues.
Jephthah realized that he would need God’s help to free Israel from the Ammonites.
He promised Jehovah that if He gave him the victory, he would offer to Jehovah, as a burnt offering, the first one who came out of his house when he returned home from the battle.
What did that offering involve?
The sacrificing of humans is something detestable to Jehovah.
Thus, it is clear that Jephthah did not intend to sacrifice anyone literally.
Under the Mosaic Law, a burnt offering was given entirely to Jehovah, so Jephthah evidently meant that he would devote the person to the exclusive service of God.
This promise implied permanent service at the tabernacle.
Jehovah accepted Jephthah’s terms and blessed him with a resounding victory.
When Jephthah returned from battle, who went out to meet him but his beloved daughter, his only child! Then came the test.
Would he keep his word?
When we face problems that seem too much for us to deal with, it may be easy to see the need to rely on Jehovah.
But what do we do when we have to cope with smaller issues of daily life?
Do we resort to human thinking by trying to solve them in our own way?
Or do we look for Bible principles and try to apply them, thus showing that we rely on Jehovah’s way to solve problems?
For example, on occasion you may face some opposition from your family regarding attending meetings or an assembly.
You ask Jehovah to direct you and help you discern the best way to handle the situation.
Or what if you lose your job, and you are having difficulty finding another?
When speaking with a prospective employer, would you still inform him that you will be attending weekday meetings regularly?
Whatever the problem may be, we do well to heed the words of the psalmist who said the words of today’s text.
For some illnesses, there may be no known cure.
So it is wise to be cautious when it comes to treatments that feature stunning claims but that are promoted merely with hearsay testimonials.
Paul was inspired to write: Let your reasonableness become known to all men.
Reasonableness also holds us back from devoting so much time to health care that spiritual matters are forced into the background.
Were we to allow health care to become the main focus of our life, we would run the risk of becoming self-centered.
Spiritual matters are most important, and with regard to health, our expectations should remain reasonable.
On matters like health care, each of us should be willing to make a personal decision and accept the responsibility that comes with it.
Solomon’s bad associations undermined his wisdom and caused him to fall away from true worship.
What a warning that is for Christians who might think about marrying someone who does not love Jehovah! What if someone becomes a worshipper of God while married to an unbeliever?
The Bible says: You wives, be in subjection to your husbands, so that if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives.
Those words are addressed to Christian wives, but the same words apply to a husband who becomes a worshipper of Jehovah while married to an unbeliever.
The Bible’s counsel is clear: Be a good mate, and live up to God’s high standards for marriage.
Many unbelieving mates have accepted the truth because of observing a husband or a wife who changed after complying with God’s requirements.
Has your upbringing or environment exposed you to national or regional loyalties?
Do any such feelings still linger in your heart?
Christians should not allow nationalistic fervor to taint their view of others.
But what if you realize that you do have negative thoughts toward people of other nations, cultures, languages, or races?
Then it would certainly be profitable to meditate on how Jehovah views nationalism and prejudice.
Researching these and related topics may prove to be a worthwhile project.
Then petition Jehovah for help to embrace his point of view on these matters.
We should do this because sooner or later, all of Jehovah’s servants will find themselves in situations in which their conscience obliges them to stand out as different from those around them—whether colleagues, classmates, neighbors, relatives, or others.
Yet, stand out we must!
What will happen after the destruction of false religious organizations?
It will be a time to reveal what is really in our heart.
The majority of mankind will seek refuge in human organizations that are likened to the rocks of the mountains.
Figuratively speaking, however, God’s people will flee to the refuge that Jehovah provides.
In the first century, the interval was not a time for a mass conversion of Jews to Christianity.
It was a time for action and obedience on the part of those who were already Christians.
Similarly, we cannot expect that the future interruption in the great tribulation will result in an influx of new believers.
Rather, it will be an opportunity for all true believers to prove their love for Jehovah and give their support to Christ’s brothers.
Jehovah hears our pleas and understands us even when no one else does.
His response to our prayers is a beautiful expression of his enduring love for us.
We can learn much from prayers recorded in God’s Word.
At times, therefore, we may find it very beneficial to consider such prayers during family worship.
Reflecting on how Jehovah’s servants of the past expressed their deepest thoughts to God may help us to enrich our own prayers.
For instance, consider Jonah’s contrite prayer from the belly of a huge fish.
Review Solomon’s heartfelt prayer to Jehovah at the inauguration of the temple.
Meditate on the model prayer that Jesus offered for our benefit.
Above all, regularly let your petitions be made known to God.
As a result, the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers.
It is a dangerous fantasy to imagine oneself becoming very wealthy while paying little attention to God.
Jesus related a story to illustrate the sad state of a person who stores up treasure for himself but is not rich toward God.
Jehovah rejoices when we do things that please him.
How happy we are when we have his approval because we have stored up treasures in heaven! And a good relationship with Jehovah is unquestionably the most valuable treasure we can have.
Imagine the extent of our anxiety if we were consumed by efforts to store up treasures on the earth.
Jesus used an illustration to show that the anxiety of this system of things and the deceptive power of riches can choke the word of the Kingdom.
Jehovah gives us his powerful holy spirit, which can strengthen us and help us to resist temptation.
God also forewarns us through his Word and the congregation about situations that we must avoid, such as spending excessive time, money, and energy on nonessential material things.
Former pioneers Espen and Janne have two children to care for.
We often pray to Jehovah, says Espen, that we may not fall into temptation now that we are unable to spend as much time as we previously did in theocratic activities.
We ask Jehovah to help us maintain our spirituality and zeal for the ministry.
Another temptation that has come to the fore in modern times is the viewing of pornography.
Some have given in to this temptation by allowing their minds to dwell on what is bad.
But we can resist, even as thousands of our brothers have done.
Many people can recite the Lord’s Prayer from memory.
In our door-to-door ministry, we often refer to this prayer to help householders understand that God’s Kingdom is a real government that is going to bring wonderful changes to our earth.
Or we may refer to the first request in the prayer to show that God has a personal name, which is to be sanctified, or treated as holy.
Did Jesus intend that this prayer be repeated word for word every time we pray, as is done by many in Christendom?
No.
Just before Jesus provided this prayer as a pattern, he said: When praying, do not say the same things over and over again.
On a later occasion, he restated this prayer but used different wording.
Thus Jesus helped us know what sort of things we need to ask for and in what order of importance.
Hence, it is fitting to call it the model prayer.
The universe truly is a marvel of organization.
Surely, then, we should expect that Jehovah wants his worshippers to be well-organized.
In fact, to that end God has provided the Bible for our guidance.
Living without the help of God’s organization and his standards would result in unhappiness and misery.
The people of ancient Israel were a model of organization.
Under the Mosaic Law, for example, there were women who were organized to serve at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Later, King David organized the Levites and the priests into effective divisions.
The first-century Christian congregation was organized, and it benefited from the direction of the governing body, initially made up of the apostles.
Counsel and instructions were also provided by means of inspired letters.
How grateful we should be that Jehovah used his holy spirit to reveal the truth to us and to enable us to exercise faith in the good news! We should never cease thanking Jehovah for drawing us to himself through his Son, the Chief Agent and Perfecter of our faith.
To show our appreciation for such undeserved kindness, we should keep strengthening our faith through prayer and study of God’s Word.
We should keep exercising our faith in Jehovah’s promises.
We must do this in ways that are clearly evident to others.
For example, we keep on preaching about God’s Kingdom and sharing in the work of making disciples.
We also keep working what is good toward all, but especially toward those related to us in the faith.
And we work hard to strip off the old personality with its practices.
As the early Christian congregation grew, a situation that apparently involved discrimination arose.
Greek-speaking Jews complained that their widows were not being treated fairly.
To settle this issue, the apostles appointed seven men to make sure that nobody was neglected.
These men all had Greek names, which seems to indicate that the apostles wanted to ease any tensions over background that might have existed among the early Christians.
Whether we realize it or not, we are all deeply influenced by our culture.
Moreover, we likely hear neighbors, fellow workers, or schoolmates make derogatory remarks about those of another background, tribe, or skin color.
How deeply are we affected by such biased views? And how do we react when someone makes fun of our nationality—maybe by exaggerating some feature of our culture?
Faithful ones mentioned in died before the promised offspring, Jesus Christ, opened the way to heavenly life.
Nevertheless, they will be resurrected to perfect human life in an earthly paradise.
says of some who lived in pre-Christian times: In faith all of these died, although they did not receive the fulfillment of the promises; but they saw them from a distance and welcomed them.
One of these was Abraham.
Did he keep clear in mind the happy hope of life under the promised offspring?
Jesus gave a clear answer to that question when he said to his opposers: Abraham your father rejoiced greatly at the prospect of seeing my day, and he saw it and rejoiced.
The same was true of Sarah, Isaac, Jacob, and many others who focused their hope on the future Kingdom, whose designer and builder is God.
Although Noah and his three sons each had only one wife, polygamy was practiced in patriarchal times.
In many cultures, sexual immorality became a way of life, even being incorporated into religious rites.
When Abram Abraham and his wife, Sarai Sarah, obeyed God and moved to Canaan, that land was filled with practices that made a mockery of marriage.
Jehovah therefore decreed that Sodom and Gomorrah be destroyed because inhabitants of those cities practiced or condoned gross sexual immorality.
Abraham took the proper lead in his family, and Sarah set a fine example by submitting to her husband’s headship.
Abraham made sure that his son Isaac married a worshipper of Jehovah.
Similar concern for true worship guided Isaac’s son Jacob, whose sons became the forefathers of the 12 tribes of Israel.
Jehovah in his undeserved kindness grants us the blessing of approaching his heavenly throne in prayer.
He has afforded us this privilege through his Son, by means of whom we have this freeness of speech and free access with confidence through our faith in him.
Free access to Jehovah in prayer is indeed a wonderful expression of his undeserved kindness.
Paul encouraged us to approach Jehovah freely in prayer, so that we may receive mercy and find undeserved kindness to help us at the right time.
At any time that we are plagued with trials or turmoil in our life, we can cry out to Jehovah for his merciful help.
Undeserving as we are, he answers our call, often through fellow Christians, so that we may be of good courage and say: Jehovah is my helper; I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?
’—.
Soon after the Israelites were miraculously released from slavery in Egypt, the Amalekites attacked them.
Following Moses direction, courageous Joshua led the Israelites into battle.
In the meantime, Moses took Aaron and Hur to a nearby hillside from which they could see the battlefield.
Moses put into action a plan that proved to be the key to their success.
Moses kept his hands and the rod of the true God lifted up toward heaven.
As long as Moses did that, Jehovah empowered the hands of the Israelites to fight successfully against the Amalekites.
However, when Moses hands became heavy and began to drop down, the Amalekites started to win.
Acting with decisiveness, Aaron and Hur took a stone and put it under Moses, and he sat on it.
Then Aaron and Hur, one on each side, supported his hands, so that his hands remained steady until the sun set.
Yes, God’s mighty hand enabled the Israelites to win the battle.
Those prophetic words are undergoing fulfillment in these last days.
Why, during the 2015 service year, 8,220,105 Kingdom publishers were active in the world field! The last part of that prophecy should affect all Christians personally, for our heavenly Father says: I myself, Jehovah, will speed it up in its own time.
Like passengers in a vehicle gaining speed, we sense the increased momentum in the disciple-making work.
How are we personally reacting to that acceleration?
Are we doing all we can as zealous Kingdom publishers?
Many brothers and sisters are applying to serve as regular or auxiliary pioneers.
And do we not rejoice to see so many answer the call to serve where the need is greater or participate in other areas of theocratic activity?
Whether we are brothers or sisters, we certainly have plenty to do in the work of the Lord.
Notice that this is a personal request not purely for my bread for the day but for our bread for the day.
Victor, a circuit overseer in Africa, explains: I often sincerely thank Jehovah that my wife and I don’t have to be seriously concerned about where our next meal will come from, nor do we have to worry about who will pay the rent.
Our brothers kindly look after us every day.
But I do pray that those helping us will manage to handle the economic pressures they face.
If we have sufficient food for many days, we can think of brothers who live in poverty or who are affected by disasters.
We should not only pray for them but also act in harmony with our prayers.
For example, we can share what we have with fellow worshippers in need.
We can also regularly contribute to the worldwide work, knowing that such funds are used wisely.
As we, like Paul, busy ourselves in the preaching work, we trust that Jehovah will see to it that all other necessary things will be added to us.
As Kingdom preachers, we have been entrusted with the good news, and we are considered by Jehovah to be his fellow workers.
By being as active as possible in God’s work, we will find it easier to wait for relief.
Let us, then, use the present time to strengthen our relationship with God.
If any situation makes us anxious, use it to draw closer to Jehovah.
Yes, by being immersed in God’s Word, by praying continually, and by staying absorbed in spiritual activities, let us trust that Jehovah can and will see us through our present circumstances as well as everything else that lies ahead.
You no doubt agree that the Bible contains God’s message for mankind in general.
But does the Bible also convey how you in particular can draw closer to Jehovah?
Indeed it does.
How?
As you regularly read and study the Bible, consider your response to what it says and give thought to how you can apply it to your circumstances; then you are allowing Jehovah to talk to you through his Word.
This draws you into a closer relationship with him.
For example, read and meditate on Jesus words to stop storing up for yourselves treasures on the earth.
If you feel that you are already focusing your life on Kingdom interests, you sense Jehovah’s commendation.
On the other hand, if you see a need to simplify your life and to focus more on Kingdom interests, Jehovah has alerted you to an area where you can work at drawing closer to him.
Forward-looking elders share in a timely fashion with younger brothers the experience they have acquired during their years of faithful service.
Elders who train others are a blessing to the flock.
They strengthen the congregation’s defenses.
How?
The efforts of elders to train others result in more brothers who will be ready to help the congregation to stand firm and united, not only now but especially when turbulent times come during the great tribulation.
Therefore, dear elders, we appeal to you to make training a regular feature of your ministry today.
Of course, we understand that the time you spend on caring for important congregation activities may already make you feel stretched to the limit.
Hence, you may need to take some of that time and use it for training.
Doing so would be a wise investment.
When we treasure our friendship with Jehovah, we strive to please him in every aspect of our life, including our thoughts.
We desire to have a pure heart by focusing our minds on what is chaste, virtuous, and praiseworthy.
Granted, Jehovah makes allowances for our imperfect nature.
He knows that we are prone to improper desires.
But we recognize that it saddens him when we nurture wrong thoughts instead of doing all we can to reject them.
Reflecting on this fact makes us ever more determined to keep our thoughts chaste.
An important way to show our complete reliance on Jehovah is by making our fight against unclean thoughts a matter of prayer.
When we draw close to Jehovah in prayer, he draws close to us.
He generously gives us his holy spirit, thus strengthening our resolve to resist immoral thoughts and remain chaste.
Did Jesus mean that there would always be poor people on the earth?
No, he meant that there would be poor people as long as this corrupt system of things lasts.
Today the basic needs of hundreds of millions of people go unmet because of unjust human rule.
Yet, relief is in sight! Jesus miracles give us confidence in his ability and his desire soon to use his authority for our good.
Though we cannot perform miracles, we can enthusiastically draw people’s attention to God’s inspired Word.
Bible prophecies guarantee better times ahead.
As dedicated Witnesses of Jehovah who possess this precious knowledge about the future, do we not sense that we have a debt toward others?
May meditating on this move us to tell others the good news of God’s Kingdom.
Undoubtedly, we rejoice that God has promised immortality in heaven to faithful anointed ones and everlasting life on earth to Jesus loyal other sheep.
Of course, neither immortal life in heaven nor eternal life on earth will be plagued by the suffering common today.
Jehovah is aware of the pain we experience, even as he knew how the Israelites suffered as slaves in Egypt.
Indeed, during all their distress it was distressing to him.
Centuries later, the Jews were afraid because of enemy opposition to the rebuilding of the temple, but God said: Whoever touches you touches the pupil of my eye.
Just as a mother has tender feelings for her baby, Jehovah is moved to act lovingly in behalf of his people.
In a sense, Jehovah can put himself in the place of others, and he has given us that ability.
We must consider that all of us are some 6,000 years removed from the human perfection that existed in Eden.
Imperfect people are prone to make mistakes.
Therefore, it would not be good to expect too much of fellow believers and to let their faults rob us of the joy that comes from being part of God’s people in these last days.
An even greater mistake would be to allow the faults of others to stumble us and cause us to leave Jehovah’s organization.
Were that to happen, we would lose not only the privilege of doing God’s will but also the hope of life in God’s new world.
To maintain our deep joy and firm hope, we want to keep clearly in mind the comforting promise of Jehovah: Look! I am creating new heavens and a new earth; and the former things will not be called to mind, nor will they come up into the heart.
Do not let the faults of others prevent you from obtaining such blessings.
There is no real or true God but Jehovah; no other god is like him.
Thus, Moses was reminding the Israelites that their worship of Jehovah must be exclusive.
They were not to follow the peoples around them, who worshipped various gods and goddesses.
Some of those false gods were viewed as ruling over certain parts of nature.
Others were separate forms of a particular deity.
For example, the Egyptians worshipped the sun-god Ra, the sky-goddess Nut, the earth-god Geb, the Nile-god Hapi, and numerous sacred animals.
Many of these false gods were dealt devastating blows by Jehovah through the Ten Plagues.
The prominent Canaanite god was Baal, the god of fertility, who also appeared as the god of the sky, rain, and storm.
In many places, Baal was the local patron deity as well.
The Israelites were to remember that their God, the true God, is one Jehovah.
By choosing to do God’s will and by working hard to do so, we show our depth of love for Jehovah and our desire to please him.
We also demonstrate our support of his sovereignty.
Satan has challenged the rightfulness of Jehovah’s sovereignty, so our voluntary and vigorous efforts to uphold it are undoubtedly of special value to our benevolent and appreciative heavenly Father.
However, if Jehovah completely relieved us of the need to exert ourselves to fight our imperfect tendencies so as to please him, any claim of loyalty and support of his sovereignty would be meaningless.
Thus, Jehovah tells us to put forth earnest effort in developing godly qualities.
He expects us to work hard to control our thoughts and feelings.
Having made a genuine effort in this regard, we feel all the more satisfied when we realize that the Bible is still changing our life.
Who really are preaching the good news of the Kingdom today?
With full confidence, we can say: Jehovah’s Witnesses! Why can we be so confident?
Because we are preaching the right message, the good news of the Kingdom.
By going to the people, we are also using the correct methods.
Our preaching work is being done with the right motive—love, not financial gain.
Our work has the greatest scope, reaching out to people of all nations and languages.
And we will continue to do this work without letup, year in and year out, until the end comes.
We truly marvel at what is being accomplished by God’s people in these exciting times in which we live.
But how is it possible for all of this to happen?
The apostle Paul answers in today’s text.
May all of us continue to be energized by our loving Father as we do our very best and fully accomplish our ministry.
Two brothers were greeted by a certain sister in a way that one of them considered inappropriate.
When the two brothers were alone, the offended brother began to criticize the sister for what she had said.
However, the other brother reminded him that she had served Jehovah loyally in difficult circumstances for 40 years; he was sure that she meant no harm.
After considering this for a moment, the first brother responded, You are right.
As a result, the issue went no further.
What does this experience show?
The way you react to situations that have the potential for causing offense lies in your own hands.
A loving person covers over minor transgressions.
Jehovah considers it beauty on your part to overlook an offense.
So the first thing to ask yourself when somebody treats you in a way that could seem unkind or disrespectful is: Can I overlook this? Do I really need to make an issue of it?
At our meetings, our Grand Instructor directs us through the pages of his Word, the Bible.
Even unbelievers who attend our meetings may conclude: God is really among you.
Jehovah blesses meetings with his holy spirit and actively directs the Scriptural teaching program.
At our meetings, then, we are listening to Jehovah’s voice and sensing his loving care.
Consequently, we draw close to him.
Jesus said: Where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst.
As head of the congregation, Christ walks among the congregations of God’s people.
Think of it! Jehovah and Jesus are actively involved in strengthening us at Christian meetings.
How do you think Jehovah feels when he observes our eagerness to draw close to him and his Son?
The battle was grueling.
Israelite soldiers led by Judge Gideon had chased their enemies—the Midianite army and its allies—all night for a distance of some 20 miles 32 km! The Israelites knew that this was no time to give up.
So to eliminate the enemy, they kept up the pursuit and subdued Midian.
We too are fighting a relentless battle.
Our enemies include Satan, his world, and our own imperfections.
Some of us have battled for decades, and with Jehovah’s help, we gained victories.
At times, though, we may get tired of battling our enemies and of waiting for the end of this system of things.
Indeed, we have not yet won the complete victory.
Jesus warned that we who live in the last days would face severe trials and cruel mistreatment, but he also said that gaining the victory would depend on our endurance.
We can learn a lesson from ancient times about the importance of being watchful.
Back then, many larger cities—such as Jerusalem—were surrounded by high walls.
The walls provided physical protection from invaders as well as elevated vantage points from which to watch the surrounding landscape.
Day and night, watchmen were stationed on the walls and at the gates.
They were to alert the city’s inhabitants of any approaching danger.
It was a life-and-death matter that the watchmen remain awake and attentive at their posts.
Jewish historian Josephus relates that in 70 C.
, the Roman forces were able to take possession of the Tower of Antonia, adjoining the city wall of Jerusalem, because the guards at the gates were asleep! From there, the Romans rushed the temple and set fire to it, resulting in the finale of the greatest tribulation that Jerusalem and the Jewish nation had ever experienced.
From the beginning of creation, unity of purpose was evident.
Father and Son collaborated, and they produced the variety of life we observe today.
Cooperation continued to mark God’s works.
We see this quality in the building of the ark in Noah’s day; the erecting, dismantling, and moving of the tabernacle as God’s people journeyed in the wilderness; and even in the playing of music and blending of voices in harmonious praise to Jehovah at his temple.
All those endeavors depended on cooperation.
This pattern of working together characterized the early Christian congregation under its head, Jesus Christ.
The apostle Paul explained that, even though individual anointed Christians had different gifts and shared in different ministries and different activities, all were part of one body.
Jonathan must have been astonished by the way young David faced the giant Goliath.
Now David stood before Jonathan’s father, King Saul of Israel, with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
Jonathan probably admired David for his courage.
It was clear that God was with David, and Jonathan and David became bound together in close friendship.
In fact, they made a covenant because Jonathan loved David as himself.
For the rest of his life, he was loyal to David.
Jonathan’s attachment to David endured, even though God had chosen David to be Israel’s next king.
Jonathan became concerned about David when Saul was seeking to kill him.
To encourage his friend, Jonathan traveled into the Judean wilderness at Horesh.
There, Jonathan helped David find strength in Jehovah, saying the words of today’s text.
One who is somewhat younger can realize what it means to do what is right and to be dedicated to his Creator.
Thus, baptism is an important and appropriate step for a young person who has manifested considerable maturity and has made a dedication to Jehovah.
What does it mean to be mature?
Maturity involves more than physical growth.
The Bible says that mature people have their powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong.
Thus, mature people know what is right in Jehovah’s eyes and are resolved in their heart to stick to it.
As a result, they are not easily swayed to do what is wrong; nor do they always have to be prodded to do what is right.
Really, it is only reasonable to expect that a young person who gets baptized will uphold God’s standards even when parents or other adults are not present.
Being imperfect, we are prone to make mistakes.
Thankfully, though, Jehovah does not deal with us according to our sins, provided that we are repentant and in faith approach him humbly on the basis of Jesus ransom sacrifice.
Yet, as David told Solomon, for our daily worship to be acceptable to Jehovah, we have to serve him with a complete heart.
Serving God with a complete heart involves full devotion that does not end.
In the Bible, the word heart usually refers to a man’s inner self.
It encompasses his desires, thinking, disposition, attitudes, abilities, motivations, and goals.
So a person who serves Jehovah with his whole heart does not just go through the motions of worshipping Jehovah.
What about us?
Well, if we, though being imperfect humans, continue to be fully devoted to God without hypocrisy, we will be serving God with a complete heart.
It would be wrong to exalt individuals, even if they are anointed brothers of Christ.
Speaking about Christian elders, the Bible encourages us to imitate the faith of those who take the lead, but it never commands us to elevate any human as our leader.
True, the Scriptures speak of some as being considered worthy of double honor.
However, such ones are worthy of honor, not because they are anointed, but because they preside in a fine way and work hard in speaking and teaching.
Therefore, it would be embarrassing for those with a heavenly calling if others were to give them undue praise or attention.
Worse still, if they received special treatment, anointed Christians might find it difficult to remain humble.
None of us would want to cause one of Christ’s brothers to stumble!—.
This special operation of holy spirit becomes like a down payment, a guarantee or, a pledge of what is to come.
An anointed Christian gains an inner conviction because of this token.
That person is sure of his invitation.
But whether he finally receives his reward in heaven or not depends on his proving faithful to his calling.
Peter explained it this way: Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and choosing sure for yourselves, for if you keep on doing these things, you will by no means ever fail.
In fact, in this way you will be richly granted entrance into the everlasting Kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Each anointed Christian must, therefore, struggle to remain faithful.
If he does not, his heavenly calling, or invitation, will be of no value to him.
The original-language expression translated hospitality means kindness to strangers.
This phrase may remind us of the examples of Abraham and Lot.
Both men showed kindness to visitors whom they did not know.
These visitors turned out to be angels.
Do we too extend hospitality to others by inviting them to our home for a meal or for some association and encouragement?
We would not need to make elaborate or expensive arrangements to be considered hospitable; nor would we want to invite only those who might repay us in some way.
Our goal should be to encourage, not to impress! Even though we may not know our circuit overseer and his wife very well, do we eagerly show them hospitality? With our busy schedules as well as the stresses of daily living, how important it is that we do not forget hospitality!
God’s firstborn Son was the earliest and most complete expression of Jehovah’s unfathomable wisdom.
He was wisdom personified, a master worker alongside his Father.
We can only imagine the joy and satisfaction that he experienced as his Father prepared the heavens and established the foundations of the earth.
However, though appreciating these inanimate things, God’s firstborn Son was especially fond of the sons of men.
Yes, Jesus has a fondness, or tender affection, for mankind that stretches back to his prehuman existence.
Later, as proof of his loyalty and love for his Father, as well as of his deep love for the sons of men, God’s Firstborn willingly emptied himself and came to be in the likeness of men.
He did so in order to provide a ransom in exchange for many.
What love he has for the human family!
At one time, he enjoyed a fine standing with Jehovah.
At some point, however, this spirit creature began to desire the worship of humans.
Rather than dismiss that improper desire, he nurtured it and let it grow until it gave birth to sin.
We know that creature as Satan, who did not stand fast in the truth.
He rebelled against Jehovah and became the father of the lie.
Since his rebellion, Satan has proved to be Jehovah’s greatest enemy, and he certainly has not been a friend of mankind.
The titles given to Satan reveal the depth of his corruption.
Satan means Resister, indicating that this wicked spirit creature does not support God’s sovereignty; rather, he hates it and aggressively fights it.
More than anything else, Satan wants to see the end of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
Studying the Scriptures does more than reveal areas in which we can improve spiritually.
It also deepens our appreciation for Jehovah’s endearing ways, causing us to love him even more.
And when our love for God grows, his love for us intensifies, thus strengthening our bond with him.
For us to draw close to Jehovah, however, it is essential that we study with the right objective.
says: This means everlasting life, their coming to know you, the only true God, and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ.
Thus, our objective should be not merely to take in knowledge but to come to know Jehovah better as a Person.
As we come to know Jehovah more intimately, we will not be unduly disturbed if certain Bible accounts leave us wondering why he acted as he did.
Recently, a group of elders who are successful in helping brothers to grow spiritually were asked what approach they use when training others.
Though the circumstances of these brothers vary greatly, the advice they gave was strikingly similar.
What does this indicate?
That Bible-based training is applicable to learners everywhere in every congregation—just as it was in the apostle Paul’s day.
A teacher needs to create the right conditions for training.
Just as a gardener needs to cultivate, or loosen, the soil before sowing seeds, so a teacher needs to prepare, or encourage, the heart of a learner before teaching him new skills.
So how do teachers create the right conditions for training others?
By following an approach similar to that taken by Samuel when he was preparing Saul to lead Israel.
The clergy of Christendom are not preaching God’s Kingdom.
If they do speak about the Kingdom, many refer to it as a feeling or a condition in the heart of a Christian.
They do not help people to understand that God’s Kingdom is a heavenly government with Jesus Christ as Ruler, that it is the solution to all mankind’s problems, and that it will soon remove all wickedness from this earth.
Rather, they prefer to remember Jesus at Christmas and Easter.
They seem to have no idea of what Jesus will accomplish as earth’s new Ruler.
They have also lost sight of what should be the motive for preaching.
It should not be to collect money and construct elaborate buildings.
The Word of God should not be commercialized.
Those preaching the Kingdom message should not seek personal gain for the work that they do.
Suppose you are drawn to a certain style of dress that could possibly disturb some in the congregation.
Yet, you may know of no specific Bible law that forbids it.
What is Jehovah’s mind on the matter?
The apostle Paul offered this inspired counsel: The women should adorn themselves in appropriate dress, with modesty and soundness of mind, not with styles of hair braiding and gold or pearls or very expensive clothing, but in the way that is proper for women professing devotion to God.
In principle, this counsel applies equally to Christian men.
As devoted servants of Jehovah, we are concerned not only with our personal preferences but with the effect that our dress and grooming could have on others.
Modesty and love move us to take into account the opinions of fellow believers in order to avoid distracting or even offending them.
Adam lost his sonship when he rebelled against his Maker.
Nonetheless, throughout the generations a great cloud of Adam’s descendants have chosen to uphold God’s sovereignty.
By humbly submitting to their Creator, they have demonstrated that they wanted him, not Satan, to be their Father and Potter.
Their loyalty to God calls to mind the words of our day’s text.
Today, all who worship Jehovah in spirit and truth endeavor to reflect the same humble, submissive attitude.
They consider it an honor to address Jehovah as Father and to submit to him as their Potter.
Do you see yourself as soft clay in God’s hands, willing to be molded into a vessel that is desirable in his eyes? Do you similarly see each of your spiritual brothers and sisters as a work in progress, being molded by God?
Jealousy and hatred moved Jephthah’s half brothers to drive him away, illegally depriving him of his rightful inheritance as firstborn.
Yet, he came to their aid when they pleaded for his help.
The fight to defend Jehovah’s name was more important to Jephthah than any personal conflicts.
He was determined to be faithful to Jehovah, resulting in good for himself and for others.
Will we allow Jephthah’s example to touch our hearts?
Perhaps we have experienced disappointment or ill-treatment from certain Christian brothers.
If so, we should not allow such challenges to hold us back from attending Christian meetings or serving Jehovah and being with the congregation to the full.
In imitation of Jephthah, we too can allow divine standards to help us overcome negative circumstances and continue to be a force for good.
We must endure, not for a time, but to the end.
To illustrate: Imagine a ship that capsizes.
To survive, the passengers must swim to shore.
The swimmer who gives up only a few yards from shore faces the same fate as the swimmer who gave up much earlier.
Similarly, we are determined to endure until we reach the new world.
Our life depends on our enduring.
We have an attitude like that of the apostle Paul, who twice stated: We do not give up.
We can be absolutely confident that Jehovah will help us endure to the end.
We share Paul’s conviction as expressed at : We are coming off completely victorious through the one who loved us.
For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor governments nor things now here nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor any other creation will be able to separate us from God’s love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Ask Jehovah for the wisdom to recognize and deal with situations that could cause you to violate your Christian neutrality.
If you are imprisoned or otherwise punished because of your resolute stand for true worship, pray for the strength to defend your faith with boldness and to endure whatever persecution may come.
Jehovah can strengthen you by means of his Word.
Meditate on verses that will help you maintain your neutrality under test.
Commit them to memory now, so that they can sustain you if you do not have access to a Bible later.
God’s Word can also reinforce your hope in future Kingdom blessings.
This hope is essential if we are to endure persecution.
Select passages that describe blessings that you especially hope to enjoy, and visualize yourself experiencing those blessings in Paradise.
Jehovah’s faithful servants on earth, his Witnesses, make up an organization that is indeed exceptional.
True, it is composed of humans who are imperfect and who have their faults.
Still, God’s holy spirit has been moving his global congregation to grow and prosper.
When the last days of the present system began back in 1914, God’s servants on earth were relatively few in number.
But Jehovah blessed their preaching work.
During the following decades, millions of new ones learned Bible truths and became Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Jehovah actually pointed forward to this outstanding growth, saying the words of today’s text and adding: I myself, Jehovah, will speed it up in its own time.
That prophetic statement has certainly come true in these last days.
Thus, the number of God’s people on earth is now greater than the entire population of many nations.
For Jesus, it was unthinkable that his heavenly Father would provide food for the birds but not take care of the same basic needs of humans.
He will not put the food in our mouths, but he may bless our efforts to grow the food we need or to earn the money to buy our daily provisions.
In cases of need, he may motivate others to share what they have.
Although Jesus did not mention providing shelter for the birds of heaven, Jehovah has provided them with the instincts, skills, and materials needed to make nests for themselves.
Jehovah can likewise help us find adequate housing for our families.
When saying the words found in today’s text, Jesus no doubt had in mind that he would soon give his life in behalf of mankind.
Compare .
Jesus did not die for the birds of heaven, but he did die for us so that we might enjoy unending life.
After serving in a foreign-language field for over three years, Serge and his wife, Muriel, noticed that their 17-year-old son lacked joy in theocratic activities.
When we realized that this situation had hindered our son from making spiritual advancement, explains Serge, we decided to move back to our former congregation.
What factors might influence parents to move back?
First, they should determine whether they really have enough time and resources to instill love for Jehovah in their children while at the same time teaching them a foreign tongue.
Second, they may notice in their children a lack of interest in spiritual activities or in the foreign-language field in which they are serving.
In such circumstances, Christian parents might consider moving back to a congregation that uses the language their children best understand until their children take a firm stand for the truth.
Without doubt, Noah’s neighbors must have asked him why he was building such a colossal structure.
Did Noah keep quiet or tell them to mind their own business?
By no means! His faith moved him to witness boldly and to warn his contemporaries of God’s coming judgment.
Quite likely, Noah repeated to the people the exact words that Jehovah had spoken to him: I have decided to put an end to all flesh, because the earth is full of violence on account of them I am going to bring floodwaters upon the earth to destroy from under the heavens all flesh that has the breath of life.
Everything on the earth will perish.
Also, Noah no doubt explained to the people the only means of escape, repeating God’s command: You must go into the ark.
Thus, Noah further exercised his faith by being a preacher of righteousness.
After serving God for years, a Christian could begin to set his or her mind on the things of the flesh.
That does not refer to a Christian who occasionally thinks about food, employment, recreation, or even romance.
Those are aspects of life for the average servant of God.
Jesus enjoyed food, and he fed others.
He saw the need for refreshment.
And Paul wrote about the proper place for passion or intimacy within marriage.
The Greek word that Paul used means to set one’s mind or heart upon something, to employ one’s faculty for thoughtful planning, with the emphasis upon the underlying disposition or attitude.
Those who live according to the flesh allow their life course to be determined basically by their sinful human nature.
One scholar says about that word at : They set their minds on—are most deeply interested in, constantly talk about, engage and glory in—the things pertaining to the flesh.
Anyone can act immodestly if he allows himself temporarily to be overcome by fleshly desires.
Selfish ambition, envy, and uncontrolled anger have led many to presumptuous acts.
Bible characters like Absalom, Uzziah, and Nebuchadnezzar succumbed to such works of the flesh and were humbled by Jehovah for their presumptuousness.
There are other reasons, though, why someone may act immodestly.
Consider, for example, the following Bible accounts: .
Were the seemingly presumptuous actions of Abimelech and Peter motivated by sinful desires?
Or were these individuals simply unaware of all the facts, or were they caught off guard?
Since we cannot read hearts, it is both wise and loving to avoid jumping to conclusions about other people’s motives.
describes the time—from 1914 to early 1919—when the anointed sons of Levi would undergo a period of refinement.
During that time, Jehovah God, the true Lord, accompanied by Jesus Christ, the messenger of the covenant, came to the spiritual temple to inspect those serving there.
After receiving needed discipline, Jehovah’s cleansed people were ready to take up a further assignment of service.
In 1919, a faithful and discreet slave was appointed to provide spiritual food to the household of faith.
God’s people were now free of the influence of Babylon the Great.
Since that time, by Jehovah’s undeserved kindness, his people have constantly been growing in knowledge of God’s will and in love for their heavenly Father.
How grateful they are for his blessing!
We love Jehovah because he first loved us.
As one expression of his tender love, Jehovah has taken the initiative to bless his loyal servants.
The more we love our God, the stronger our faith becomes, not only that he exists, but that he unfailingly rewards those whom he loves.
Being a rewarder is an integral part of who Jehovah is and what he does.
Our faith is not complete unless we are firmly convinced that God will reward those who earnestly seek him, for faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for.
Yes, faith involves the certain expectation of God’s promised blessings.
As shown in today’s text, Jehovah invites us to reach out for his blessing.
We show our deep appreciation and gratitude when we accept Jehovah’s generous offer.
Like the needy widow, many of our modern-day fellow believers trust that if they seek first the Kingdom, Jehovah will make sure that they have what they need.
Consider a brother named Malcolm.
Over the decades that he and his wife served Jehovah, they experienced ups and downs.
Life is unpredictable at times, uncertain, and even hard to deal with, he said.
But Jehovah blesses those who lean on him.
Malcolm’s advice?
Pray to be as productive and as active in Jehovah’s service as you can be.
Focus on what you can do, not on what you cannot do.
As this system of things goes from bad to worse, we can expect to face increasingly greater difficulties.
So it is more important than ever that we do not allow ourselves to be paralyzed by such challenges.
Rather, we need to cultivate strong trust in Jehovah while taking whatever appropriate action we can.
Satan wants us to slave for Riches rather than for Jehovah.
Those who spend most of their energy accumulating material things end up with a life that is, at best, shallow because it appeals to selfish gratification or that is, at worst, spiritually empty and full of grief and frustration.
It is as Jesus described in his illustration of the sower.
When the Kingdom message is sown among the thorns .
, the desires for everything else make inroads and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
As we near the end of this system of things, now is not the time to amass more and more material things for ourselves.
We should not expect that any of our possessions, regardless of how treasured or valuable they may be, will survive with us through the great tribulation.
True contentment is based on our trust in Jehovah.
It allows us to have a balanced view of material possessions.
It helps us to realize that our relationship with Jehovah and our Christian brothers is far more important than anything that money can buy.
A contented person does not complain, grumble, or find fault; nor does he succumb to feelings of envy and greed—feelings that can stifle the development of brotherly love.
Rather, contentment promotes a generous spirit.
Also, our trust in Jehovah gives us courage, no matter what challenges we may face.
This courage, in turn, allows us to have a positive attitude and to build up and comfort our fellow believers.
Even when the world faces the great tribulation, we will be able to stand up straight and lift up our heads, knowing that our deliverance is near.
If we are ill, we can look to God for comfort, wisdom, and support, as did true worshippers in the past.
Still, we know that an individual living in David’s day who showed consideration to a lowly one did not keep living without end.
Hence, when David wrote the above, he could not have meant that such a considerate individual would be kept alive miraculously, thus gaining everlasting life.
We can take those inspired words to mean that God would help the loyal considerate one.
How?
David explained: Jehovah will sustain him on his sickbed; during his sickness you will completely change his bed.
Yes, an individual who showed consideration to a lowly one could be certain that God was aware of him and his faithful course.
And the recuperative power of his God-given body might help him to get better, to recover from his sickness.
Paul was not here referring to just any type of prisoner.
He was speaking about those brothers who were imprisoned for their faith.
Paul himself had been in prison bonds for some four years by the time he penned those words to the Hebrew Christians.
He commended the brothers for having expressed sympathy for those in prison.
Those Hebrew Christians were physically separated from Paul.
So how could they keep him in mind?
They could do so by their fervent prayers in his behalf.
Today, we may likewise be separated physically from our brothers who have been thrown into prison.
We may not be able to give them the practical help that is provided by the Witnesses who live near the prison.
But we can show our sympathy and brotherly affection by constantly remembering these faithful ones and mentioning them in our prayers, pleading to Jehovah in their behalf.
In the past, the English New World Translation followed the pattern of some other English Bibles that use the Hebrew expression Sheol in verses such as .
That verse used to read: There is no work nor devising nor knowledge nor wisdom in Sheʹol, the place to which you are going.
Translators of many non-English editions faced this problem: The term Sheol is unknown to most of their readers, it is not found in their dictionaries, and it sounds like some geographic location.
Accordingly, for the 2013 revision, approval was given to make the meaning of Sheol and the corresponding Greek term Hades clear by translating them accurately as the Grave.
Obsolete English expressions were also replaced, and a concerted effort was put forth to make the text clear and easy to understand without sacrificing accuracy.
Applying what had been done in other languages sharpened the English text.
We need time to meditate as we prepare to conduct a Bible study.
With each student in mind, we might think of a viewpoint question or an illustration to help the student make progress.
Time spent in this way can be most refreshing, as pondering over these things strengthens our own faith and helps us to conduct our Bible studies with greater effectiveness and enthusiasm.
The same is true when we prepare our heart to go out in the field service.
Reading a chapter from the Bible book of Acts will stir up like a fire our enthusiasm for the ministry.
Meditating on Bible verses we intend to use that day and the publications we plan to offer will help us carry out our privilege of service.
Think about the people in the territory and what may arouse their interest.
All such preparation will move us to witness effectively with a demonstration of spirit and power from the Word of God.
Ask yourself: What may tempt my child to look at pornography?
Does he know why it is so dangerous?
Am I approachable so that he will come to me for help if he is ever tempted to look at pornography?
Even while your children are quite young, you could say to them: If you ever come across an immoral website and you feel tempted to look at it, please come and talk to me.
You don’t have to be ashamed.
I want to help you.
Insight will also help you to choose your own entertainment prudently.
What we as parents approve of in the way of music, movies, or books sets the tone for the family, says a father named Pranas.
You can say a lot about a lot of things, but your children will watch what you do and imitate you.
If your children see you carefully choosing clean entertainment, they will probably be moved to make similar choices.
It would reflect a serious lack of love and trust for us to make decisions without taking God’s will into consideration.
Once in the days of Samuel, Israel was badly defeated in battle by the Philistines.
God’s people were in dire need of help and protection.
What did they do?
Let us take the ark of Jehovah’s covenant with us from Shiloh, so that it may be with us and save us from the hand of our enemies, they decided.
The outcome?
The slaughter was very great; on Israel’s side, 30,000 foot soldiers fell.
Moreover, the Ark of God was captured.
It might have seemed that in taking the Ark with them, the Israelites were looking to Jehovah for help.
Really, though, they had not sought Jehovah’s direction; they were following their own ideas, and the result was disastrous.
What can you do to build and maintain strong faith?
Do not be satisfied with only what you learned up to the point of your baptism.
Take note of fulfilled prophecies in the Bible because these can provide you with powerful reasons for having faith.
You can also use God’s Word as a measuring rod to see if your faith matches the description of what is expected of those who have strong faith.
The apostle Paul told fellow Christians that they could have an interchange of encouragement by one another’s faith.
As we associate with fellow worshippers, we can build up one another’s faith, especially when we are with those who have already demonstrated the tested quality of their faith.
Bad associations destroy faith, but good associations build it.
That is one reason why we are counseled not to forsake our meeting together.
Servants of Jehovah want to train their conscience.
They want the proddings of their conscience to agree with the standards of right and wrong, good and bad, as reflected in God’s Word.
A properly trained conscience exercises a powerful influence for good in the Christian congregation.
However, training and using our Christian conscience is not just a mental activity.
The Bible links a good conscience to faith and love.
Paul wrote: The objective of this instruction is love out of a clean heart and out of a good conscience and out of faith without hypocrisy.
As we train our conscience and respond to it, our love for Jehovah will deepen and our faith will be strengthened.
In fact, the way we use our conscience reveals the depth of our spirituality, the quality of our heart, and the intensity of our desire to please Jehovah.
Indeed, this inner voice reflects what sort of person we truly are.
Jehovah is the Creator of all humans.
That is why the Bible calls Adam a son of God, and Jesus taught his followers to address God as our Father in the heavens.
Being the Life-Giver, Jehovah is our Father; the relationship between him and us is that of a father to his children.
Simply put, Jehovah loves us the way a devoted father loves his children.
Human fathers, of course, are imperfect.
Try as they may, they do not fully reflect the way Jehovah expresses his fatherly love.
In fact, some individuals have dark memories of growing up in family situations that have left them with deep emotional or psychological scars.
That is painful and sad, even tragic.
To be sure, Jehovah is not a father like that.
Knowing how Jehovah loves and cares for us will surely draw us closer to him.
The Lamb is Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.
The Bible tells us that he is far superior to all men who are or have been kings.
It explains: He is the King of those who rule as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords, the one alone having immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see.
Indeed, what other king has ever voluntarily died as a ransom for our sins?
Do you not feel moved to join with myriads of heavenly creatures in proclaiming: The Lamb who was slaughtered is worthy to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
Honoring Jehovah and Christ is not optional.
Our everlasting life depends on our doing so.
Although Hezekiah was the son of one of Judah’s worst kings, he grew up to be one of the very best.
Hezekiah set about righting the terrible wrongs that his father had committed.
He did so by cleansing the temple, atoning for the people’s sins, and destroying pagan idols in a vigorous and far-reaching campaign.
When he faced daunting challenges, such as the threat of attack on Jerusalem by the Assyrian king Sennacherib, Hezekiah showed profound courage and faith.
He relied on God for salvation and strengthened his people by word and example.
Later, when Hezekiah needed correction for showing a haughty attitude, he humbled himself and repented.
Clearly, Hezekiah did not let his past ruin his present or deprive him of a future.
Rather, he showed that he was Jehovah’s friend and a fine example to imitate.
Kindness can help you to deal with a conflict of loyalties.
For example, you may have definite knowledge that a certain fellow believer is guilty of serious misconduct.
You may feel loyal to him, especially if he is a close friend or a relative.
But if you were to cover up the wrongdoing, you would be disloyal to God.
Of course, your loyalty to Jehovah should come first.
Be kind yet firm.
Urge your friend or relative to seek the help of the elders.
If he or she does not do so within a reasonable period of time, loyalty to God should move you to report the matter to the elders.
In doing this, you are being loyal to Jehovah and kind to your friend or relative, for Christian elders will try to readjust such an individual with mildness.
The examples of faithful servants of Jehovah can give us the wisdom and strength we need to endure.
For instance, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to worship an image representing the Babylonian State.
Reading about their determination has given Witnesses today the courage to refuse to worship the flag of the nation in which they live.
Also, Jesus stayed completely separate from the political and social conflicts of the world.
Noting the effect that his example would have on others, he urged his disciples to take courage.
Support also comes from the brothers and sisters in your congregation.
Members of the congregation will encourage you if they are aware of the challenges you are facing.
Ask them to pray in your behalf.
Of course, if we want our brothers to support us and pray for us, we should do the same for them.
Jehovah’s people have always treasured occasions to meet together.
Immediately after the Christian congregation was formed, followers of Jesus began devoting themselves to associating together.
You likely share their desire to attend congregation meetings regularly.
Nevertheless, all Christians face obstacles.
Secular work, a busy schedule, or fatigue because of our daily routine can make it difficult to attend meetings.
Appreciating the value of the meetings can motivate us to try to overcome these obstacles and maintain a healthy pattern of meeting attendance.
Granted, some of our fellow believers are unable to attend meetings regularly because of circumstances beyond their control, such as serious illness.
Elders may assist these infirm ones to benefit from spiritual programs, perhaps by helping them to tie in by telephone hookup or by recording the meetings for them.
Jephthah’s thorough grasp of Israel’s history gave him a clear picture of what was right and what was wrong in Jehovah’s eyes.
Godly principles that were embedded in the Mosaic Law molded Jephthah’s thinking as well as his heart.
He knew that Jehovah disapproved of holding grudges; rather, God required that His people love one another.
The Law also taught that a person must not ignore the needs of others, even of someone who hates him.
Examples of faithful ones like Joseph, who showed mercy to his brothers—even though they began to hate him—may also have influenced Jephthah’s response.
Meditating on such examples would have helped Jephthah to choose a course of action that was pleasing to Jehovah.
The conduct of his brothers no doubt hurt him deeply, but he would not hold back from serving Jehovah and His people.
God’s people have always used their ability to speak—to use language—to praise Jehovah and to make his will known to others.
In recent times, a significant way to promote pure worship by the use of language has been through Bible translation.
There are thousands of Bible translations, but they vary in how faithfully they convey the message from the original texts.
In the 1940’s, the New World Bible Translation Committee established principles of translation that have been followed in over 130 languages.
These are: 1 Sanctify God’s name by restoring it to its rightful place in the Scriptures.
2 Translate the original inspired message literally where possible, but convey the correct sense when a word-for-word rendering would distort the meaning.
3 Use easy-to-understand language that encourages reading.
Imagine what life would be like if God did not have love for mankind.
We merely have to look at the awful history of this world with its human rulerships under its unloving and wrathful god, Satan the Devil.
This shows us how horrible the future would be if the universe were to function without the operation of God’s love.
When rebelling against Jehovah’s rule, the Devil challenged the rightfulness and righteousness of God’s universal sovereignty.
In effect, Satan claimed that his rule would be better than that of the Creator.
Though Jehovah permitted Satan to try to prove his side of the issue, such permission was temporary.
In his great wisdom, Jehovah has allowed enough time to pass to expose very clearly the inadequacy of any rule other than his.
The miserable record of mankind shows that neither humans nor Satan can provide what we need in the way of good rulership.
Our efforts to serve God—through prayers, meeting attendance, field service, and other aspects of our worship—are in vain if we refuse to make peace with others.
We cannot be friends of God unless we are willing to forgive the shortcomings of others.
Every Christian needs to think carefully and honestly about being forgiving and having peaceful relations with others.
Do you forgive fellow believers freely?
Are you happy to fellowship with them?
Jehovah expects his servants to be forgiving.
If your conscience tells you that you have improvements to make in this regard, prayerfully seek Jehovah’s help in order to make them! Our heavenly Father will hear such humble prayers and answer them.
If it is not possible to know with certainty the names of all spiritual Israelites on earth today, how can members of the other sheep go with them?
Notice what the prophecy in Zechariah states concerning the figurative ten men.
These ones would take firm hold of the robe of a Jew, saying: We want to go with you, for we have heard that God is with you people.
Although only one Jew is mentioned here, in both instances the pronoun you refers to more than one person.
This spiritual Jew must, then, be a composite person, not just one individual! So it is not necessary to identify every spiritual Jew and then go with him or her.
Rather, we need to identify these ones as a group and then support them as such.
In no way do the Scriptures encourage us to follow an individual.
Jesus is our Leader.
What does it mean for us to show brotherly love?
The Greek term used by Paul, phi·la·del·phiʹa, literally means affection for a brother.
Brotherly love is the type of affection that involves a strong, warm, personal attachment, such as to a family member or a close friend.
We do not pretend to be brothers and sisters—we are brothers and sisters.
Our strong feeling of attachment to one another is summed up nicely in these words: In brotherly love have tender affection for one another.
In showing honor to one another, take the lead.
Combined with principled love, a·gaʹpe, this type of love promotes close companionship among God’s people.
Christianity embraces all believers, no matter what their nationality.
As brothers, we have been taught by Jehovah to have brotherly affection for one another.
Our love for Jesus moves us to work whole-souled in the preaching and disciple-making work.
During the Memorial season, we will have the opportunity to serve as an auxiliary pioneer and spend 30 or 50 hours in the preaching work.
Could you arrange your circumstances to do so?
One 84-year-old widower did not feel that he could auxiliary pioneer because of his age and poor health.
Nonetheless, the pioneers in his area rallied to his aid.
They provided transportation and carefully chose territory that he could work, so that he could meet his 30-hour goal.
Could you reach out and help someone share in the joy of auxiliary pioneering during the Memorial season?
Of course, not all of us may be able to auxiliary pioneer.
Even so, we can use whatever time and energy we have to increase our sacrifice of praise to Jehovah.
If we have accomplished something worthwhile, could it be that Jehovah is leaving us alone to put us to the test, allowing what is in our heart to surface?
For example, a brother may have worked hard to prepare a talk and give it before a large audience.
Many praise him for what he has done.
How will he react to the praise?
When praised, we do well to apply Jesus words: When you have done all the things assigned to you, say: We are good-for-nothing slaves.
What we have done is what we ought to have done.
We can learn from Hezekiah’s experience.
A haughty attitude surfaced in that he did not respond appreciatively to the good done to him.
Our meditating on how much God has done for us will help us to avoid an attitude that Jehovah hates.
We can speak appreciatively of Jehovah who loyally supports his people.
It is not always easy to understand the pain that others are experiencing.
Many people face difficulties that we have never known.
Some are challenged physically because of injury, disease, or aging.
Others are coping with emotional trials because of depression, panic attacks, or the aftereffects of abuse.
Still others are part of a religiously divided family or a single-parent household.
Everyone faces some problem, and often it is one we ourselves have not experienced.
In such a case, how can we imitate God’s love?
By listening intently until we understand the other person’s feelings, at least to some extent.
This will move us to imitate Jehovah’s love by acting according to the need.
The need is different with each individual, but we may be able to provide spiritual encouragement and some other practical help.
Jehovah wants us to live comfortably—a fact that becomes clear when we consider the beautiful surroundings that he provided for Adam and Eve.
But Satan can exploit our desires with the deceptive power of riches.
Many think that money will make them happy or that material possessions are the key to success.
Such thinking is pure deception, and it can cause us to lose the most valuable possession we have—our friendship with Jehovah.
Jesus warned his followers: No one can slave for two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise the other.
You cannot slave for God and for Riches.
If we slave exclusively for Riches, we have stopped serving Jehovah, and that is precisely what Satan wants us to do! May we never let money or the things it can buy eclipse our friendship with Jehovah.
To fight Satan, we must maintain a balanced view of material things.
The danger of disregarding this counsel is illustrated in , where we read about a young man who goes for a stroll near the house of an immoral woman.
They engage in sexual immorality.
If only he had stayed far away from her! Might we at times show a similar lack of good judgment, perhaps straying into dangerous situations that could awaken wrong desires?
For example, at night, television networks may relax their restrictions on program content.
What if we occasionally channel surf?
Or perhaps we might aimlessly follow links on the Internet or frequent chat rooms and sites that carry invitations to view pornography or offer other sexual services.
Could it be that in such circumstances we would be confronted with something that would arouse improper desires and undermine our fight to remain chaste?
The Source of Christ’s power is Jehovah himself, so we have reason to believe that Almighty God is fully capable of controlling the forces of nature.
Consider a few examples.
Before the Flood, Jehovah stated: In just seven days, I will make it rain on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights.
Similarly, at , we read: Jehovah drove the sea back with a strong east wind.
And we read at : Jehovah hurled a strong wind at the sea, and there was such a violent storm on the sea that the ship was about to be wrecked.
It is encouraging to know that Jehovah can control the elements.
Clearly, planet Earth’s future is in good hands.
How wonderful it is to think of the time when no natural forces will kill or maim, for the tent of God will be with mankind! We can be assured that the power of God exercised through Christ will control the forces of nature during the Millennium.
What a pleasure it is to offer practical, appealing, and attractive literature in the ministry! And when we use the latest technology to spread the truth, such as by means of the jw.
org website, we reflect Jehovah’s interest in providing people everywhere with the guidance most of them lack but so desperately need.
Not to be overlooked is the wisdom behind the adjustment that allowed us to have a Family Worship evening or more time for personal study.
We also appreciate advances made in assembly and convention programs.
We often say that they get better every year! And we certainly rejoice over the increased training being provided by our many theocratic schools.
In all these adjustments, Jehovah’s hand is clearly seen.
He progressively enhances the beauty of his organization and of the spiritual paradise that we enjoy even now!
Why did Jesus use the word debts, whereas on a later occasion, he spoke of sins?
Over 60 years ago, The Watchtower nicely explained: A sin of transgression against God’s law puts us in debt to him.
For our sin God could demand and exact our lives.
He could withdraw his peace from us, breaking off all peaceful relations with us.
We owe him love, expressed in obedience; and when we sin we fail in paying our debt of love to him, for sin is unloving toward God.
Our daily need for forgiveness highlights the only legal basis on which God can cancel our sins—Jesus ransom sacrifice.
Though this ransom was paid nearly 2,000 years ago, we should cherish it as if it were a gift given today.
The ransom price for our lives is so precious that nothing any imperfect human could do for us would come near to paying it.
Jehovah is the God who supplies endurance and comfort.
He alone fully understands not only the problems we face but also the way our environment, emotions, and even our genetic makeup affect us.
He is thus the best one to equip us to endure.
How will God answer our prayers for strength to endure?
When we ask Jehovah to help us cope with trials, he will make the way out.
Does Jehovah maneuver matters to remove the trial?
Perhaps.
Often, however, he makes the way out so that we may be able to endure it.
Yes, Jehovah strengthens us so that we may endure fully with patience and joy.
And since he knows our physical, mental, and emotional limits so intimately, Jehovah will never allow a situation to develop to a point that we cannot remain faithful.
We must remain neutral in order to be loyal subjects of God’s Kingdom.
Otherwise, how could we have a clean conscience when we preach the good news that only God’s Kingdom can solve mankind’s problems?
Additionally, unlike false religions that divide their members by meddling in politics, true worship preserves our international brotherhood by helping us to remain neutral.
As Satan’s system nears its end, we can expect the issue of neutrality to become more prominent.
The world is filled with people who are not open to any agreement and headstrong, so it will only become more divided and polarized.
In some countries, our brothers have already faced unexpected challenges to their neutrality because of a rapidly changing political environment.
Do you see why we need to strengthen our resolve now to remain neutral?
If we wait until we face a challenging situation, we might compromise and violate our neutral stand.
Most differences between Christians can and should be resolved privately by the individuals concerned.
However, Jesus noted that some situations might require congregation involvement.
What would be the outcome if an offender refused to listen to his brother, to witnesses, and to the congregation?
He should be treated just as a man of the nations and as a tax collector.
Today, we would say that he should be disfellowshipped.
The seriousness of this step indicates that the sin was not a small disagreement.
Rather, it was 1 a sin that could be settled between the individuals concerned but it was also 2 a sin serious enough to merit disfellowshipping if not settled.
Such sins might involve a measure of fraud or might include damaging a person’s reputation through slander.
The three steps Jesus outlined, as recorded at , are applicable only where these conditions exist.
God’s Word tells us to be obedient to human governments, yet it also teaches that we must obey God rather than men.
Is this a contradiction?
Not at all! The principle of relative subjection helps us to understand and obey these commands.
Jesus summarized this principle when he said the words of today’s text.
We submit to the authority of the government under which we live by obeying its laws, respecting its officials, and paying the taxes it levies.
However, if government authorities tell us to disobey God, we respectfully refuse to comply.
We remain neutral in the world’s political affairs.
Thus, we do not oppose human governments that Jehovah allows to function; nor do we promote patriotic or nationalistic activity.
We do not lobby, vote in political elections, run for government office, or try to change governments.
No doubt all of us have our favorite portions of the Bible.
Some especially enjoy the Gospels, which paint a beautiful picture of Jehovah’s personality as reflected in his Son.
Others are fond of parts of the Bible containing prophecy—perhaps Revelation, with its preview of the things that must shortly take place.
And who among us has not found comfort in the Psalms or drawn practical lessons from the book of Proverbs?
The Bible truly is a book for everyone.
Because we love the Bible, we also love our Bible-based publications.
For instance, we appreciate the spiritual food we receive in the form of books, brochures, magazines, and other literature.
We know that these provisions from Jehovah help us to stay spiritually alert, well-fed, and healthy in faith.
This proved especially important in recent history when the nations engaged in deadly wars on a shocking scale.
For instance, some 55 million people were killed in World War II alone.
However, Jehovah’s Witnesses did not participate in that global slaughter.
This has helped them to remain clean from the blood of all men.
The progress of God’s people is taking place in a very hostile world, which the Bible says is controlled by Satan, the god of this system of things.
He manipulates the political elements of this world, as he does the world’s mass media.
But he cannot stop the preaching of the good news.
However, knowing that he has only a short time left, Satan tries to turn people away from true worship, and he uses various means to do so.
Throughout the earth, there are millions who worship Jehovah and bear witness to his name and purpose.
How should each worshipper of Jehovah view his fellow Witnesses?
The apostle Peter wrote: Now that you have purified yourselves by your obedience to the truth with unhypocritical brotherly affection as the result, love one another intensely from the heart.
Peter also told fellow believers: Above all things, have intense love for one another.
Because we have intense love for our fellow servants of Jehovah, we make up a unique worldwide organization.
Moreover, because we love Jehovah and obey his laws, he supports us with the most powerful force in the universe, his holy spirit, or active force.
This enables us to enjoy wonderful unity as a truly international brotherhood.
Our words may be just what our hearer truly needs, but unless we discern the best time to speak, their meaning could be lost.
For example, in March 2011 an earthquake and tsunami devastated parts of eastern Japan, wiping out entire cities.
More than 15,000 lost their lives.
Although Jehovah’s Witnesses in the area suffered along with their neighbors, they took advantage of every opportunity to use the Bible to comfort those who were mourning.
However, many of the local people have deep-rooted Buddhist beliefs and little or no knowledge of Bible teachings.
Our brothers discerned that immediately following the tsunami was not necessarily the best time to tell the grief-stricken victims about the resurrection hope.
Instead, they used their gift of speech to focus on giving emotional support and explaining from the Bible why such terrible things happen to innocent people.
God’s provisions to help us remain like soft clay include his Word, the Christian congregation, and the field ministry.
As water softens clay, daily Bible reading and meditation can help us be malleable in Jehovah’s hands.
Jehovah required that the kings of Israel write for themselves a copy of God’s Law and read it daily.
The apostles realized that reading the Scriptures and meditating on them was essential for their ministry.
They quoted from and referred to the Hebrew Scriptures hundreds of times in their writings and encouraged the people to whom they preached to do the same.
Today, we too see the importance of reading God’s Word daily and prayerfully meditating on it.
Doing so helps us to remain humble before Jehovah and be malleable in his hands.
The Gibeonites wisely recognized Israel’s backer to be the true God.
Rahab too perceived God’s hand in the events of her day.
After learning about how Jehovah rescued his people, she told two Israelite spies: I do know that Jehovah will give you the land.
Even though taking such a stand was fraught with danger, she expressed faith that Jehovah could deliver her and her family.
These and many other examples in the Bible help us to understand what it means to see God or to see his hand in matters.
As we come to know him, we too can see his hand because we perceive his qualities and actions with the eyes of our heart.
Surely we want to be like those past and present who have clearly seen Jehovah supporting his people.
Although Martha was the only woman mentioned by name as being one whom Jesus loved, he also had pure unselfish love for other godly women, such as his dear earthly mother, Mary, and Martha’s sister, Mary.
Why, then, is Martha mentioned in this way in the Gospel account?
Jesus loved Martha not only for her hospitable and industrious nature but, no doubt, because of her spirituality.
She was a woman who truly believed Jesus teachings.
Martha had remarkable faith in Jesus as the promised Messiah.
At the same time, like all of us, she was not perfect.
On one occasion while Jesus was being entertained in her home, Martha presumed to tell Jesus what he should do to correct a situation she thought to be wrong.
Lord, said Martha, does it not matter to you that my sister has left me alone to attend to things?
Tell her to come and help me.
By continuing to ponder over spiritual things, we will maintain our enthusiasm for the truth.
Thus we will be a source of refreshment to our brothers and to the interested ones we meet in the field service.
Meditating deeply on God’s greatest gift, the ransom sacrifice of Jesus, will help us to cherish the privilege of having a close relationship with our Holy Father, Jehovah.
Mark, a South African who spent three years in prison because of his Christian neutrality, said: Meditation can be compared to an exciting adventure.
The more we meditate on spiritual things, the more we discover new things about our God, Jehovah.
At times when I’m feeling a little discouraged or anxious about the future, I pick up the Bible and meditate on a passage of Scripture.
I feel that it really calms me down.
When appropriate, explain to your children the reasons behind a rule or a decision you make.
If a teenager understands your thinking on the matter, he is more likely to obey you from a willing heart.
Giving reasons helps teenagers to trust you because they see that your decisions are not arbitrary or capricious but reasonable, says Barry, who raised four children.
A teenager is also maturing into an adult with his own power of reason.
Barry explains: Teenagers need to learn to make sensible decisions based on reason rather than emotion.
When you humbly give reasons for your decisions, your adolescent can sense that you recognize that he is progressing toward maturity, and he learns to make his own decisions with his power of reason.
A young sister in France said: Teachers in my school are quite astonished that there are students who still believe in the Bible.
As a young servant of Jehovah or as someone learning about Him, do you feel under pressure to conform to popular beliefs, such as evolution, rather than believe in a Creator?
If so, there are steps you can take to strengthen your faith and keep it strong.
One step is for you to use your God-given thinking ability, which will keep watch over you.
It will protect you from secular philosophies that could destroy your faith.
Genuine faith is based on accurate knowledge about God.
So as you study God’s Word and our Christian publications, do not just skim over the material.
Use your thinking ability so that you get the sense of what you read.
Holy spirit is able to mold us in a number of ways.
For instance, it can help us to develop a Christlike personality, which is characterized by the fruitage of God’s spirit.
An aspect of that fruitage is love.
We love God and want to obey him and be molded by him, recognizing that his commandments are not burdensome.
Holy spirit can also give us the strength to resist the molding influence of the world and its bad spirit.
The apostle Paul, who as a young man was deeply influenced by the proud spirit of Jewish religious leaders, could later write: For all things I have the strength through the one who gives me power.
So let us, like Paul, keep on asking for holy spirit.
Jehovah will not ignore the sincere petitions of the meek.
Paul realized that we could not accept the extraordinary love of Christ without being compelled, or moved, to live for him.
When our minds fully comprehend what Jehovah has done for us and our hearts are moved by his love, we desire to live our lives whole-souled for Christ Jesus.
How do we show that desire?
Those who love Jehovah are compelled to imitate Christ’s example, following his steps closely.
Through our obedience, we prove our love for God and Christ.
Jesus said: Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me.
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him.
So ask yourself: In what areas am I doing well in following in the steps of Christ Jesus?
In what areas could I improve?
This self-examination is vital, as we are constantly being pressured to follow the ways of this world.
Do you feel that you have more than average zeal in the ministry?
Are you a keen student of God’s Word who loves to delve into the deep things of God?
Have you seen Jehovah’s special blessing on your ministry?
Do you have a burning desire to do Jehovah’s will?
Do you have a deep inner feeling of responsibility to help others spiritually?
Have you seen proof that Jehovah has personally intervened in your life?
If you answer these questions with a resounding yes, does this mean that you now have the heavenly calling?
No, it does not.
Why not?
Because these are not unique feelings experienced only by those who have the heavenly calling.
Jehovah’s spirit works with equal force in those who have the hope of living forever on earth.
In fact, if you are wondering whether you have received the heavenly calling, that would in itself indicate that you have not received it.
The letter of James explains that true Christian faith is not just a matter of believing; action is involved.
Show me your faith without the works, wrote James, and I will show you my faith by my works.
James goes on to show the clear difference between mere belief and the exercising of one’s faith.
The demons believe that God exists, but they have no true faith.
Rather, they faithlessly work against the fulfillment of God’s purposes.
By contrast, referring to another ancient man of faith, James asks: Was not Abraham our father declared righteous by works after he offered up Isaac his son on the altar?
You see that his faith was active along with his works and his faith was perfected by his works.
Then to drive home the point that faith must be shown by works, James adds the words of today’s text.
Science has revealed much about the universe and our earthly home, and it has brought us advantages in various aspects of life.
But there are many questions science has not been able to answer.
For instance, astronomers cannot tell us exactly how the universe came into existence or why we are on planet Earth with its abundance of life.
Also, people in general cannot explain why mankind has a strong desire to live forever.
Why are there so many important but unanswered questions?
Partly because numerous scientists and others tend to promote godless thinking and endorse the theory of evolution.
But in his own Book, Jehovah answers questions weighing on the hearts of people everywhere.
We are dependent on the consistent and reliable laws of nature established by Jehovah.
Electricians, plumbers, engineers, pilots, surgeons—all of them depend on these laws in order to do their work.
In some cases, a Christian is married to one who is not yet a servant of Jehovah.
Under those circumstances, the Bible gives good reasons why they should remain together.
Whether the unbelieving mate realizes it or not, he or she is sanctified because of being married to a believer.
Any children born to them are considered holy and thus have a standing with God.
Nearly every congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses has married couples in which the Christian has been instrumental in saving his or her mate.
The apostle Peter counsels Christian wives to be in subjection to their husbands, so that if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect.
Most imperfect humans are strongly influenced by the spirit of Satan’s world.
That is why people tend to idolize certain men or women rather than just show them appropriate honor and respect.
They place religious and political leaders, sports figures, entertainment stars, and other celebrities on pedestals, often considering them to be almost superhuman.
Hence, young and old alike look to them as role models, perhaps imitating their mannerisms, dress, or conduct.
True Christians refrain from such a distorted view of honoring humans.
Christ is the only human who ever lived whom we can consider a perfect role model.
God would not be pleased if we extended to humans more honor than they are due.
We need to bear in mind this basic truth: All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.
Truly, no human warrants the kind of honor that borders on idolatry.
This reconciliation enables us to be at peace with Jehovah.
Paul links this privilege to Jehovah’s undeserved kindness, stating: Now that we Christ’s anointed brothers have been declared righteous as a result of faith, let us enjoy peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we also have obtained access by faith into this undeserved kindness in which we now stand.
What a blessing this is! All of us are unrighteous by nature.
But the prophet Daniel foretold that during the time of the end, those having insight, the anointed remnant, would be bringing the many to righteousness.
By their preaching and teaching work, they have brought millions of other sheep into a righteous standing before Jehovah.
However, this has been possible only through Jehovah’s undeserved kindness.
This unnatural union of materialized angels and women produced violent hybrids known as Nephilim.
Moreover, man’s wickedness was great on the earth.
Jehovah brought about the Flood of Noah’s day in order to destroy the wicked.
At that time, people were so occupied with the daily affairs of life, including marriage, that they did not take seriously what Noah, a preacher of righteousness, said about the impending destruction.
Jesus compared conditions then with what we would see in our day.
Today, most people refuse to listen to the good news of God’s Kingdom that is being preached throughout the earth for a witness to all the nations before this wicked system is brought to its end.
Let us take to heart the lesson that even family-matters, such as marriage and the raising of children, should not be allowed to crowd out our sense of urgency as to Jehovah’s day.
Because we are living deep in the last days, we are experiencing critical times hard to deal with.
Yet, keeping spiritually strong will do much to offset this world’s negative influences.
In today’s text, Paul was not telling married couples to neglect their marital duties.
In view of the reduced time, however, they needed to give priority to spiritual matters.
Although we are living in very trying times and marital relationships are failing all around us, it is possible for us to make marriage happy and successful.
Indeed, married Christians who stick with Jehovah’s people, apply Scriptural counsel, and accept the guidance of Jehovah’s holy spirit can preserve what God has yoked together.
The need for shepherds in the Christian congregation is great, and those who will do such work in the future need ongoing training.
Paul told Timothy: The things you heard from me that were supported by many witnesses, these things entrust to faithful men, who, in turn, will be adequately qualified to teach others.
Timothy learned by serving alongside the apostle, an older man.
Then Timothy applied Paul’s methods in his own ministry and other aspects of sacred service.
Paul did not leave Timothy’s training to chance.
He had the young man accompany him.
Elders can imitate Paul’s example by taking qualified ministerial servants along on shepherding calls when appropriate.
Elders thus give such brothers an opportunity to observe firsthand the teaching, faith, patience, and love required of Christian overseers.
This procedure contributes to the training of future shepherds of the flock of God.
One circumstance that many have faced is the struggle to overcome a fleshly weakness.
Others have had to put forth determined effort to maintain a positive view of the ministry.
Or in your case, it may be the need to keep enduring, even though you have poor health or are lonely.
We should also not overlook the struggle some have to forgive someone who has offended them or has sinned against them.
No matter how long we have been serving Jehovah, all of us must fight against things that might hinder our service to God, who rewards the faithful.
If you realize that you have to some extent been affected in a negative way, by all means pray for holy spirit.
Prayer and holy spirit can give you energy to pursue the course that you know to be right and that Jehovah can bless.
Act on your prayers.
Try to read a portion of the Bible each day, and make time for personal study as well as regular Family Worship sessions.
Have people said to you that they believe in evolution because it is based on science whereas belief in God is based on faith?
Many hold this view.
But it is good for us to keep this in mind: No matter what someone believes about God or about evolution, some type of faith is involved.
How so?
None of us have seen God or observed something being created.
And no human—whether he is a scientist or not—has observed one kind of life evolve into another kind.
No one has watched a reptile evolve into a mammal, for example.
Hence, all of us must examine the evidence and use our thinking ability to reach sound conclusions.
Regarding creation, the apostle Paul wrote: God’s invisible qualities are clearly seen from the world’s creation onward, because they are perceived by the things made, even his eternal power and Godship, so that they are inexcusable.
Jehovah lovingly made provisions for the foreigners living in Israel, such as the right to glean food.
Rather than order the Israelites to respect foreigners, Jehovah appealed to their empathy.
They knew how it felt to be a foreigner.
Even before they were reduced to slavery, the Hebrews were likely shunned by the Egyptians because of racial pride or religious prejudice.
The Israelites had experienced a bitter life as foreign residents, but Jehovah expected them to treat the foreigner like a native among them.
No doubt, Jehovah is equally concerned about people from a foreign background who attend meetings in our congregations.
If we reflect on the challenges that they are facing, such as discrimination or the language barrier, we will look for ways to show them kindness and fellow feeling.
Many of us had to make significant changes prior to our baptism in order to bring our life into harmony with the Bible’s basic requirements.
After baptism, we discerned the need to continue making changes—more subtle ones—so as to imitate God and Christ more closely.
For instance, we may have noted in ourselves a critical spirit, a fear of man, a tendency toward harmful gossip, or some other weakness.
Has making progress in this regard proved to be harder than we expected?
Remember, we are still imperfect.
It is therefore unrealistic to expect that after baptism—or even after many years in the truth—we will no longer make mistakes, experience setbacks, or be troubled with wrong motives and inclinations.
Certain tendencies might persist for years.
As much as we look forward to the Paradise ahead, the primary blessings in the new world will be spiritual.
How deeply satisfying it will be to know that Jehovah’s name has been sanctified and his sovereignty vindicated! We will be thrilled to see Jehovah’s original purpose for mankind and the earth being fulfilled.
And just think how much easier it will be to draw closer to Jehovah as we approach, and finally reach, perfection! These blessings can be ours, for Jesus assures us that with God all things are possible.
But if we expect to live in that new world—and to keep living beyond Christ’s Thousand Year Reign—we must act now to get a firm hold on everlasting life.
We must live in expectation of the end of this wicked world, and we need to take positive steps right now to prepare for life in the new world.
The world abounds with people and societies motivated by a spirit of independence that fosters pride, egotism, and rivalry.
Anyone who allows himself to be swept along by this spirit is, in effect, accepting Satan’s argument that it is the course of wisdom to pursue one’s own interests regardless of how doing so may affect others.
Such a selfish course leads to strife.
In contrast, Jesus taught people to seek peace, even if such a course would seem detrimental to their own interests.
In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus gave excellent advice about handling disagreements or potential conflicts.
For instance, he urged his disciples to be mild-tempered, to be peacemakers, to eliminate causes for anger, to settle matters quickly, and to love their enemies.
Most young children are eager to learn, and they tend to be humble.
Accordingly, wise parents can strive to inculcate knowledge of the truth and love for it in the minds and hearts of their little ones.
Of course, to succeed, the parents must first impress the truth on their own hearts, making the truth their way of life.
When parents do this, their children not only hear the truth but also experience it.
Moreover, they learn to view parental discipline as an expression of love that reflects Jehovah’s love.
When we humbly submit to Jehovah and make such submission our way of life, he will view us as very precious, just as he did the prophet Daniel.
What is more, Jehovah will continue to mold us by means of his Word, spirit, and organization.
Jehovah wants us to be concerned not only about our own spiritual welfare but also about that of others, including those who might have sinned against us.
Usually, such sins are minor and give us an opportunity to show that we truly love our brothers and are willing to forgive, as God has mercifully forgiven us.
Sadly, as imperfect humans, we may sometimes harbor a grudge against another.
If we talk about the matter, others may side with us, causing a division in the congregation.
If we allow such a situation to continue, it would show a lack of appreciation for God’s mercy and the ransom.
Our Father will cease to apply to us the value of his Son’s sacrifice if we display an unforgiving spirit.
Jesus elaborated on this immediately after giving the model prayer.
Finally, to benefit from God’s forgiveness, we must strive to avoid making a practice of serious sin.
It is an honor to be allowed by Jehovah to contribute to the beauty of our spiritual paradise.
We do that by zealously preaching the Kingdom good news and making more disciples.
Each time we help a person progress to Christian dedication, we have worked to extend the borders of the spiritual paradise.
We can also enhance the beauty of our spiritual paradise by steadily improving our own Christian personality.
In that way, we make this paradise more appealing to onlookers.
More than even Bible knowledge, it is often our chaste, peaceful conduct that initially draws people to the organization and in turn to God and to Christ.
How pleased Jehovah and Jesus must be when they observe our beautiful spiritual paradise today! The enjoyment we have now in working to enhance its beauty is but a foretaste of the joy we will have later in working to make the earth a physical paradise.
Spirit creatures called angels are mighty in power.
They are superior to humans and thus have greater intellect and strength.
Of course, faithful angels use their power for good.
For example, on one occasion an angel of Jehovah struck down 185,000 enemy Assyrian soldiers—a feat that would have been impossible for one human and difficult even for an entire army.
On another occasion an angel used his superhuman power and ingenuity to release Jesus apostles from jail.
That spirit creature eluded security measures, unlocked the doors, let out the apostles, and then locked the doors behind them—all of that while guards were stationed nearby! Whereas faithful spirit creatures use their power for good, Satan uses his power for evil.
And what power and influence he has! The Scriptures refer to him as the ruler of this world.
Whether married or single, we must strenuously resist all forms of sexual immorality.
Is the fight easy?
By no means! If you are a young person, for instance, you might hear your schoolmates boast about having casual sex or about sexting, a practice that in some places is viewed as being tantamount to distributing child pornography.
The Bible says: Whoever practices sexual immorality is sinning against his own body.
Both suffering and death have resulted from the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
And the majority of unmarried youths who lose their virginity say that they regret what they did.
The reality of immoral sex is far different from what is portrayed by the entertainment media, which would have us believe that breaking God’s laws has no consequences.
Such thinking makes people fall victim to the deceptive power of sin.
Jephthah had no other child; his daughter was his only hope for a descendant, someone to carry on his name and his inheritance in Israel.
Nevertheless, concludes with Jephthah saying: I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I am unable to turn back.
His faithfulness even at great personal cost brought him God’s approval and blessing.
Would you have made the same choice?
When we dedicated our lives to Jehovah, we vowed that we would do his will unreservedly.
We knew that living up to that promise would require self-sacrifice.
However, our willingness is especially put to the test when we are asked to do things that are not initially to our liking.
When we make such sacrifices and serve God in a way that takes us out of our comfort zone, we prove ourselves faithful.
The resulting blessings are always far greater than any sacrifices we may make, painful as they may be.
Can we see Jehovah’s enduring love for us in what he has created?
Yes, we can because the very act of creation was a manifestation of God’s love.
He designed the earth with an ecosystem in which we can safely exist and thrive.
However, he wants us to do more than merely exist.
We need to eat to keep on living.
Jehovah made sure that the earth could produce a seemingly endless variety of plants that can be prepared as wholesome food.
Why, he even made eating a delightful and satisfying experience! Jehovah created us with the ability to perform productive and meaningful work that adds to our enjoyment of life.
He purposed that humans fill the earth, subdue it, and have in subjection the fish, the birds, and other living creatures.
And how loving of Jehovah to endow us with qualities that enable us to imitate him!—.
Events on the world scene clearly indicate that Bible prophecy is now being fulfilled and that the end of this wicked system of things is imminent.
Therefore, we should not assume that much time is needed for the state of this world to develop to the point where the ten horns and the wild beast of turn on Babylon the Great, the world empire of false religion.
Let us bear in mind that God will put it into their hearts to make that move—and this could happen swiftly and at any time! The end of this entire system of things is not far off.
With good reason, we should heed Jesus warning as given in today’s text.
Let us be resolved to serve Jehovah with a sense of urgency, confident that he acts in behalf of those who keep in expectation of him.
Jesus described the scope of the preaching work by saying that the good news would be preached in all the inhabited earth.
Disciples are to be made of people of all the nations.
That entails a global work.
To understand how Jehovah’s Witnesses have fulfilled Jesus prophecy with regard to the scope of the preaching work, let us consider some facts.
There are approximately 600,000 members of the clergy in the various denominations in the United States, where there are some 1,200,000 Witnesses of Jehovah.
Worldwide, the Roman Catholic Church has a little over 400,000 priests.
Now consider the number of Witnesses involved in the Bible-based Kingdom-preaching work.
Worldwide, some eight million volunteer ministers preach to people in 240 lands.
What an amazing work is being accomplished, all to Jehovah’s praise and glory!—.
Jesus leads the Christian congregation by means of holy spirit.
We need holy spirit to help us resist temptation, to embolden and equip us for the ministry, and to enable us to make sound decisions.
Should we not take advantage of every provision—including congregation meetings—to receive that spirit?
At many of our meetings, we review the fulfillment of Bible prophecy.
As a result, we reinforce our conviction that Jehovah’s promises for the future will likewise be fulfilled.
Of course, it is not just those who speak from the platform who encourage us.
Fellow Christians who offer comments and sing from the heart also build us up.
And when we converse with our brothers and sisters before and after the meetings, we feel a sense of belonging and enjoy true refreshment.
The Bible indicates that wickedness will greatly increase in the last days.
So we can expect that world conditions, bad as they are now, will continue to decline.
But how bad do you expect conditions to become before the great tribulation?
For example, do you expect that there will be a war in every country, no food on anyone’s table, and illness in every household?
Under those conditions, even skeptics would likely feel compelled to admit that Bible prophecy was undergoing fulfillment.
However, Jesus said that most people would take no note of his presence, carrying on with life’s normal activities until it is too late.
Thus, the Scriptures indicate that world conditions during the last days would not become so extreme that people would be forced to believe that the end is near.
Jesus said those words while he was on earth.
But Christ has been empowered in heaven to wage war against Satan’s world.
Thus, it is reasonable to conclude that Jesus now knows when Armageddon will occur.
We, however, do not know.
It is imperative that we stay watchful until the tribulation occurs.
Yet, the timing of that event has never been uncertain to Jehovah.
He has determined exactly when the end will come.
He is counting down the time to the start of the great tribulation, and its start will not be late! How can we be sure of this?
Jehovah’s prophecies have always been fulfilled right on time! We can be certain that Jehovah’s promise of deliverance through the great tribulation will not fail us either.
However, if we want to survive the destruction of this system, we must keep on the watch.
Faith enables us to do things that from a human standpoint may seem impossible.
For instance, many of us have changed our attitudes and practices so drastically that we are almost unrecognizable to those who knew us before.
Jehovah supported our efforts because we took these steps based on our faith in him.
Once our faith moved us to dedicate ourselves to Jehovah, we became his friends, something we could never have done in our own power.
Our faith continues to empower us.
In faith we are able to resist the attacks of our superhuman adversary, the Devil.
In addition, trust in Jehovah helps us to minimize our anxiety during challenging times.
Jehovah says that when our faith moves us to put Kingdom interests first, he will provide for our material needs.
More than that, because of our faith, we will receive a gift no human could ever obtain by his own efforts—everlasting life.
In what way has God first loved us?
The apostle Paul said: God recommends his own love to us in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
Love is Jehovah’s dominant attribute, so we can understand why Jesus told one inquirer that the first commandment from God is: You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind and with your whole strength.
From Jesus words, we learn that love for God involves, first of all, our heart.
Being halfhearted is displeasing to Jehovah.
However, we note that love for God also involves our whole soul, mind, and strength.
This means that genuine love for God is much more than just an emotional feeling of the heart.
In addition to being heartfelt, our love for God must involve all our spiritual and physical faculties.
According to the prophet Micah, that is what Jehovah wants from us.
What are some reasons why we may not clearly see God’s hand in our affairs?
Life’s challenges can overwhelm us.
When this happens, we may forget to keep focused on how Jehovah has already helped us.
When Queen Jezebel threatened the prophet Elijah’s life, even Elijah momentarily forgot how God had acted in his behalf.
Regarding Elijah, the Bible says: He asked that he might die.
What was the solution to Elijah’s problem?
He needed to look to Jehovah for encouragement.
Job also got so distracted by his own concerns that he neglected to see things from God’s viewpoint.
Like Job, we may need to put forth greater effort to see God.
How can we do that?
In the light of the Scriptures, we need to meditate on what is happening around us.
As we become aware of how Jehovah supports us, he will become more real to us.
Many things happened during Jesus ministry that could have distracted him, but he never succumbed to them.
Early in his ministry, after he had taught the crowds and performed miracles in Capernaum, people begged him not to leave their city.
But how did Jesus react to this flattering request?
He said: I must also declare the good news of the Kingdom of God to other cities, because for this I was sent.
True to his word, Jesus walked the length and breadth of Palestine, preaching and teaching.
Though perfect, he had normal human needs and sometimes felt very tired because of expending himself in God’s service.
On a later occasion while Jesus was teaching his followers how to cope with opposition, a man interrupted, saying: Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
But Jesus refused to be drawn into this dispute.
Love is God’s dominant quality, his most important one.
Jehovah does not just possess love—he is the personification of it.
How wonderful it is to know that the Creator of the universe and of all living things is a God of love! Everything he does is guided by that quality.
The warm, benevolent affection that God has for his creatures assures us that all his purposes for the human family will be fulfilled in the best possible way and will result in the greatest benefit to all who come under his rulership.
For example, out of love Jehovah has set a day on which he purposes to judge the inhabited earth in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, Jesus Christ.
We can be confident that this will come to pass.
For rightly disposed and obedient humans, favorable judgment will result in a truly blessed future that will go on and on throughout all eternity.
At a critical moment, the apostles abandoned Jesus.
Peter had earlier stated that even if the others did that, he would not.
Nevertheless, when Jesus was being taken into custody, all the apostles—including Peter—abandoned him.
Peter repeatedly denied even knowing Jesus.
However, Peter showed remorse, and Jehovah continued to use him.
Had you been a disciple then, would Peter’s actions have affected your loyalty to Jehovah?
Today, will you recognize that Jehovah may allow time for repentance on the part of wrongdoers and that he will ultimately correct the wrongs and act in a just way?
On the other hand, sometimes those who have been guilty of serious sins reject Jehovah’s mercy and are unrepentant.
In such situations, will you have confidence that Jehovah will in time judge such wrongdoers, perhaps removing them from the congregation?
Jesus did not hesitate to tell his disciples that he loved them.
He also showed his love by closely and regularly associating with his disciples.
Similarly, tell your children that you love them, and regularly show them how much they mean to you.
Samuel, who lives in Australia, says: When I was very young, Dad used to read My Book of Bible Stories to me every evening.
He would answer my questions, hug me, and kiss me good-night.
What a surprise when I later discovered that Dad was not raised in a family where hugs and kisses were common! Yet, he made a real effort to express his love for me.
As a result, I developed a strong bond with him, and I felt contented and secure.
Help your children to feel that way by often telling them I love you.
Show your affection for your children.
Talk with them, eat with them, play with them.
We have the responsibility to make known to our fellow humans that they can come into a friendly relationship with their Creator.
Before humans exercise faith in Jesus sacrifice, God considers them to be his enemies.
The apostle John wrote: The one who exercises faith in the Son has everlasting life; the one who disobeys the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains upon him.
Happily, Christ’s sacrifice makes reconciliation with God possible.
We share in teaching people spiritual truth, helping them to develop a personal relationship with Jehovah.
This is an important part of our preaching work.
David was loved by Jehovah, who found him to be a man agreeable to his heart.
But David later committed adultery with Bath-sheba, and she became pregnant.
That occurred while her husband, Uriah, was away serving in the army.
When he came home temporarily, David tried to get him to have sexual relations with Bath-sheba so that it might appear that Uriah was the child’s father.
Uriah would not do what the king suggested, so David arranged to have him killed in battle.
David paid dearly for his crime—calamities came upon him and his household.
Yet, God showed mercy to this man who overall walked before Jehovah with integrity of heart.
If you had lived among God’s people back then, how would you have reacted? Would David’s wrong conduct have stumbled you?
When Jehovah observes humans, he does not pay attention to outward appearances.
Rather, he examines the heart, the inner person.
This fact was amply demonstrated when God formed the Christian congregation.
He drew to himself and his Son many individuals who from a human standpoint might have seemed to be undesirable.
One such person was a Pharisee named Saul.
The examiner of hearts, however, did not see Saul as useless clay.
Instead, God saw that he could be molded into a desirable vessel—in fact, a chosen vessel to bear witness to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.
Others whom God saw as potential vessels for an honorable use included former drunkards, immoral people, and thieves.
As they gained accurate knowledge of God’s Word and expressed faith, they allowed Jehovah to mold them.
How well this text describes Satan’s vicious disposition! Although the whole world already lies in his power, Satan is hungry for more victims.
Satan is intent on devouring Jehovah’s people.
The waves of persecution he has unleashed against Jesus followers from the first century until now give evidence of his vicious spirit.
A famished lion feels no pity for its prey.
It feels no compassion before the kill and experiences no remorse afterward.
In a similar way, Satan has shown no pity for those whom he tries to devour.
For example, think about how often Satan the Devil must have been lurking somewhere when the Israelites succumbed to such sins as sexual immorality and greed.
When you read about the tragic consequences that befell immoral Zimri and greedy Gehazi, for instance, can you see the roaring lion reveling in his conquest?
What was the solution to such disruptive thinking?
Paul exhorted the Christians: I urge you, brothers, that you should all speak in agreement and that there should be no divisions among you, but that you may be completely united in the same mind and in the same line of thought.
Neither should there be divisions of any kind in the Christian congregation today.
Paul urged anointed Christians to focus on their heavenly citizenship rather than on earthly things.
They were to act as ambassadors substituting for Christ.
Ambassadors do not meddle in the affairs of the nations to which they are assigned.
Their loyalties lie elsewhere.
Christians with an earthly hope are also subjects of God’s Kingdom, so it is inappropriate for them to take sides in this world’s disputes.
The anxious wait is over.
Relieved to see her father returning safely from battle, the young woman races to greet him and rejoices over his astounding victory.
Instead of joining her in song and dance, he rips apart his battle-stained garments and cries out: Oh no, my daughter! You have broken my heart.
Then he utters the words that change her life forever, shattering her dreams and hopes of a normal life.
Yet, without hesitation, she encourages her father to follow through on what he promised Jehovah.
Her words reveal her great faith.
She trusts that whatever Jehovah asks is best for her.
Her father’s heart swells with pride because he knows that his daughter’s willingness to support his decision brings Jehovah’s smile of approval.
Jephthah and his daughter put their trust and confidence in Jehovah’s way of doing things, even when it was hard to do so.
They were convinced that gaining God’s approval was worth any sacrifice.
The door to complete forgiveness opens to us when we exercise faith in the ransom.
God’s Word assures us that our sins can be blotted out.
On the basis of the ransom, Jehovah adopts his spirit-anointed servants as his children.
As to those of us who are of the other sheep, it is as though Jehovah has drawn up an adoption certificate with our name on it.
After we have reached perfection and have passed the final test, Jehovah will be delighted to sign the certificate, as it were, and adopt us as his beloved earthly children.
Jehovah’s love for his precious children is everlasting.
The benefits of the ransom last forever.
This gift will never lose its value.
No person or power can take it away from us.
When Jehovah drew us into a relationship with him, he was aware of what sort of imperfect tendencies would be particularly troublesome for us.
And he knew that we would occasionally transgress.
Yet, this did not prevent Jehovah from wanting us as his friends.
Love moved God to offer us a precious gift—the ransom sacrifice of his beloved Son.
If on the basis of this priceless provision we repentantly seek Jehovah’s forgiveness when we err, we can have the confidence that our friendship with him is still intact even though we are in an imperfect state.
Isaiah foretold that this One would become a leader and commander.
And Daniel was inspired to write about the coming of Messiah the Leader.
Finally, Jesus Christ identified himself as the Leader of God’s people.
Jesus disciples followed him willingly, and they affirmed that he was Jehovah’s choice.
What convinced them?
At Jesus baptism, John the Baptizer saw the heavens being parted and, like a dove, the spirit coming down upon him.
For the rest of Jesus earthly ministry, God’s holy spirit empowered Jesus to perform miracles and to speak with divine authority.
In addition, holy spirit produced in Jesus perfect fruitage, including love, joy, and stalwart faith.
No other leader provided such convincing evidence.
Jesus was Jehovah’s choice.
Jephthah’s daughter sacrificed her natural desires for a husband and children in order to promote true worship.
How might we imitate her self-sacrificing attitude?
Thousands of young Christian men and women are willingly sacrificing marriage or are not having children—at least for now—in order to serve Jehovah to the full.
Older ones too may be sacrificing the time they could otherwise spend with their children and grandchildren in order to work on theocratic construction projects or to attend the School for Kingdom Evangelizers and to serve in areas where the need for Kingdom publishers is greater.
Others set aside personal matters to share in service campaigns.
Such wholehearted service brings deep joy to Jehovah, who will never forget their work and the love shown for him.
Would it be possible for you to make additional sacrifices to serve Jehovah more fully?
Recall what happened in King David’s case.
From the rooftop David saw a woman bathing.
He failed to look away and to direct his thoughts elsewhere.
That led him to desire a woman who was someone else’s wife and to take steps to commit adultery with her.
In order to combat immoral fantasies, we need to make a covenant with our eyes, as did faithful Job.
We must solemnly decide to control our eyes and not allow them to gaze with immoral lust at another person.
That would include averting our gaze from sexually charged images, be they on a computer screen, a billboard, a magazine cover, or anywhere else.
In your fight against wrong desires, take immediate action.
Willingly submit to the counsel of God’s Word, which can help you avoid wrongdoing and thus remain chaste.
Although we want to be kind even to those who do not follow God’s laws, we should not become their intimate associates or close friends.
It would therefore be wrong for one of Jehovah’s Witnesses who is a single person to date such an individual who is not dedicated and faithful to God and who does not respect His high standards.
Maintaining Christian integrity is far more important than becoming popular with people who do not live by Jehovah’s laws.
Our close associates should be those who do God’s will.
The disastrous results of bad associations were experienced by the Israelites.
Because they became unfaithful to God, Jesus later told them: Look! Your house is abandoned to you.
Jehovah cast off Israel, transferring his blessing to the newly formed Christian congregation.
By maintaining a humble attitude, Jehovah’s people obey an important principle given by Jesus.
In his Sermon on the Mount, he declared: You heard that it was said: You must love your neighbor and hate your enemy.
However, I say to you: Continue to love your enemies and to pray for those who persecute you, so that you may prove yourselves sons of your Father who is in the heavens, since he makes his sun rise on both the wicked and the good and makes it rain on both the righteous and the unrighteous.
Yes, as God’s servants, we must learn to love our enemies, regardless of their attitude toward us.
In all areas of life, Jehovah’s people must show by their attitude and actions that they love Jehovah and their neighbor.
For instance, even if some do not respond favorably to the Kingdom message, we show neighbor love when they are in need.
How long would the foretold preaching work continue?
Jesus said that this global work would continue right on through the last days, and then the end would come.
What other religious group has continued to preach the good news during these momentous last days?
Some of those whom we meet in the ministry may say: We have the holy spirit, but you people are doing the work.
But is not the fact that we can endure in the work evidence that we have God’s spirit?
From time to time, certain religious groups have tried to do what Jehovah’s Witnesses regularly accomplish, but those efforts usually result in failure.
Others engage in so-called missionary activities for a limited time and then go back to their normal routine.
Still others may even try to go from door to door, but what are they preaching?
The answer to that question makes it clear that they are not carrying out the work that Christ began.
Continued effort is required in order to be readjusted and manifest the new personality.
Paul reminded fellow believers: You were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct and that is being corrupted according to its deceptive desires.
And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude, and should put on the new personality that was created according to God’s will in true righteousness and loyalty.
The expression continue to be made new indicates that putting on the new personality is an ongoing process.
This is encouraging, for it assures us that regardless of how long we have been serving Jehovah, we can keep making progress in cultivating and refining the Christian qualities that make up the new personality.
Yes, the Bible can continue to change our life.
The disciples see Jesus walking on the Sea of Galilee.
Peter calls out to Jesus, asking if he could walk across the water to his Master.
When Jesus tells him to come, Peter gets out of the boat and miraculously walks toward Jesus on the choppy surface.
Moments later, though, Peter starts to sink.
Why?
He looked at the windstorm and became afraid.
Peter cries out to Jesus, who quickly catches hold of him and says the words quoted above.
When Peter climbed out of the boat to walk on the water, he did so in faith.
Jesus had called him, and Peter trusted that God’s power would support him just as it was supporting Jesus.
Similarly, when we dedicated ourselves to Jehovah and got baptized, we did so because of our faith.
Jesus called us to be his followers, to walk in his footsteps.
We had to exercise faith in both Jesus and God, trusting that they would support us in various ways.
Certainly, one of a loving father’s priorities is that of protecting and safeguarding his family against any possible harm or serious danger.
Jehovah, our heavenly Father, does no less.
Consider an example.
How precious your eyes are to you! That is how Jehovah feels about his people.
How precious God’s people are to him! Jehovah has on occasion allowed enemies to take the life of a faithful one, such as Stephen.
Yet, God protects his people overall by providing timely warnings against Satan’s crafty acts.
Through his Word and Bible-based publications from his organization, we are helped to see the truth about deceptive riches, immoral and violent entertainment, misuse of the Internet, and so on.
Clearly, as a loving Father, Jehovah looks after the safety and well-being of his people.
A Kingdom Hall is the center of pure worship for the local community.
Among the provisions that Jehovah makes for our spiritual nourishment are the weekly meetings at the Kingdom Hall.
It is here that we receive vital spiritual refreshment and direction through his organization.
Even though we have a standing invitation to eat at the table of Jehovah, we must never take that invitation for granted.
Jehovah considers such occasions for worship and mutual encouragement so important that he inspired the apostle Paul to urge us not to forsake our meeting together.
Would we be showing respect for Jehovah if we missed Christian meetings for unnecessary reasons?
Indeed, we can show how much we appreciate Jehovah and his provisions by preparing for and wholeheartedly participating in these meetings.
Many in Christendom believe, according to this teaching, that Christians will be bodily caught up from the earth.
Then, they expect that Jesus will visibly return to rule the earth.
However, the Bible clearly shows that the sign of the Son of man will appear in heaven and that Jesus will come on the clouds of heaven.
Both of these expressions imply invisibility.
Additionally, flesh and blood cannot inherit God’s Kingdom.
So those who will be taken to heaven will first need to be changed, in a moment, in the blink of an eye, during the last trumpet.
Therefore, while we do not use the term rapture here because of its wrong connotation, the remaining faithful anointed will be gathered together in an instant of time.
That admonition in itself is a good reason to remain in expectation—Jesus told us to do so! In this regard, Jehovah’s organization has set an example.
Its publications have consistently exhorted us to await and keep close in mind the presence of the day of Jehovah and to fix our hope on God’s promised new world.
Although keeping in expectation was appropriate for Christians living centuries ago, it is particularly important for us.
Why?
Because we are living during Christ’s presence.
The sign of his presence has been in evidence since 1914.
And the multifeatured sign, which includes worsening world conditions and global Kingdom preaching, means that we are living in the conclusion of the system of things.
Since Jesus did not say how long that period of time would go on before the end arrived, we need to be especially vigilant, watchful.
Manoah and his wife were going to have a son! No doubt, Manoah was happy, but he was also aware of the great responsibility that rested on his shoulders.
In a nation filled with badness, how could he and his wife successfully raise their son to serve God?
Manoah pleaded with Jehovah, saying: Please let the man of the true God the angel whom you just sent come again to instruct us about what we should do with the child who will be born.
If you are a parent, you can likely relate to Manoah’s earnest plea.
You too bear the weighty responsibility of helping your child to come to know and love Jehovah.
To that end, Christian parents arrange for a meaningful and progressive Family Worship program.
Of course, to impress Bible truths on a child’s mind, you need to do more than conduct a weekly family study.
Can you meet the challenge of inculcating the truth in your child?
Why is it vital that we let our brotherly love continue?
The simple answer is that Jehovah requires us to show brotherly love to one another.
We cannot claim to love God and at the same time refuse to love our brothers.
Additionally, we need one another.
This is especially true in times of trouble.
Paul knew that some of the Hebrew Christians to whom he was writing would soon need to leave their homes and material possessions.
Jesus had described how difficult that time would be.
So more than ever before, those Christians needed to strengthen their affection for one another.
Soon the destructive winds of the greatest tribulation of all time will be released.
It is not enough for us just to meet together regularly.
Paul reminded the Hebrew Christians that they should use such occasions to incite one another to love and fine works.
We are living in what the Bible calls the last days, and straight ahead is a tribulation like nothing that has occurred before.
Furthermore, Satan and his demons have been cast out of heaven and are confined to the vicinity of the earth, resulting in intense woe for earth’s inhabitants.
We have been commissioned to carry out a historic and unprecedented preaching campaign that is reaching peoples and language groups as never before! To keep receiving God’s blessing, we need to pay attention to all the directions provided through the Christian congregation.
Having an obedient spirit now will help us to follow directions during the great tribulation, which will eliminate Satan’s entire evil system.
Thereafter, we will need new directions for new world living.
What point is the apostle Paul here making?
An anointed Christian would partake unworthily if he did not maintain a good relationship with Jehovah.
Such a warning helps anointed Christians to remember that they have not yet taken hold of the reward.
They need to continue to press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God by means of Christ Jesus.
Under inspiration, Paul appealed to anointed Christians to walk worthily of the calling with which they were called.
How should this be done?
Paul goes on to say with all humility and mildness, with patience, putting up with one another in love, earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the spirit in the uniting bond of peace.
Jehovah’s spirit promotes humility, not pride.
To determine to what extent a less experienced brother’s thoughts and actions are influenced by Kingdom truth, an elder might ask him, How has your dedication to Jehovah changed the way you use your life?
That question can lead to a meaningful conversation about what makes our sacred service whole-souled.
Perhaps at the end of such a conversation, he might say a prayer, asking Jehovah to give the brother the holy spirit he needs to complete his training.
How upbuilding it will be for the brother to hear the elder’s heartfelt prayer in his behalf! In the initial phase of training, an elder could consider some Bible accounts that might help the learner to see the need to be willing, reliable, and humble.
Such qualities are as essential to the learner as nutrients are to the soil.
They quicken his spiritual growth and serve to open his eyes to the wonderful things in God’s Word.
Mary was to conceive, give birth to, and raise the only-begotten Son of God! It is easy to think only of Mary’s wonderful privilege and fail to consider some of the practical concerns that might have seemed daunting.
God’s angel Gabriel told her that she would become pregnant miraculously—without having relations with a man.
Gabriel did not offer to go to Mary’s family and neighbors to explain the cause of her pregnancy.
What would they think?
Mary must have been concerned about her fiancé, Joseph.
How could she convince him that, although she was pregnant, she had remained faithful to him?
Moreover, what a responsibility it would be to raise, care for, and train the only-begotten Son of the Most High! We cannot know all the concerns that may have raced through Mary’s mind when Gabriel spoke to her.
However, we do know that she answered with the words of today’s text.
Noah lived in an evil world but had no desire to make its inhabitants his close friends.
He did not seek the companionship of ungodly people.
He and the seven members of his family occupied themselves with the doing of God-given work, which included building an ark.
Meanwhile, Noah was also a preacher of righteousness.
Noah’s preaching, his work on the ark, and his association with his family kept him busy doing good things that pleased God.
As a result, Noah and his immediate family survived the Flood.
We should be grateful to them because all of us today are the descendants of those who served Jehovah—faithful Noah, Noah’s wife, his sons, and their wives.
Similarly, loyal and obedient first-century Christians kept themselves separate from ungodly people and survived the destruction of Jerusalem and the Jewish system of things in 70 C.
Not every pastime is beneficial, relaxing, or refreshing; nor is it good to engage in recreation too much or too often.
How can our conscience help us to enjoy upbuilding recreation and benefit from it?
The Scriptures warn against certain behavior identified as the works of the flesh.
These works include sexual immorality, uncleanness, brazen conduct, idolatry, spiritism, hostility, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, dissensions, divisions, sects, envy, drunkenness, wild parties, and things like these.
Paul wrote that those who practice such things will not inherit God’s Kingdom.
Accordingly, we can ask ourselves: Does my conscience move me to shun sports that are aggressive, competitive, nationalistic, or violent? Does my inner voice warn me when I am tempted to view a film that features pornographic scenes or one that condones immorality, drunkenness, or spiritism?
The expression our Father, not my Father, reminds us that we belong to an association of brothers who truly love one another.
What a precious privilege that is! Anointed Christians, who have been begotten as God’s sons with heavenly life in view, rightly address Jehovah as Father in the fullest sense.
Christians whose hope is to live forever on earth can also address Jehovah as Father.
He is their Life-Giver, and he lovingly provides for the needs of all true worshippers.
Those with this earthly hope will in the fullest sense become God’s children after they have reached perfection and have proved their loyalty in the final test.
Parents give their children a fine gift when they teach them to pray and help them to view Jehovah as a caring heavenly Father.
Parents can give their children no greater gift than that of helping them to develop a warm, close relationship with Jehovah.
Uncontrolled anxious thoughts can cause us physical and spiritual harm.
Let us trust in Jehovah and remember the words of today’s text.
Good words of encouragement from someone who understands us can make our heart rejoice.
Confiding in our parents, our spouse, or a trusted friend who views things from God’s standpoint may help to relieve our anxiety.
No one understands our anxiety better than Jehovah does.
Do not be anxious over anything, wrote Paul, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God; and the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.
Think about those who are helping to protect us from spiritual harm—fellow believers, elders, the faithful slave, angels, Jesus, and Jehovah himself.
Just north of the temple at Jerusalem was a pool known as Bethzatha.
Large crowds of sick and infirm people would gather there, hoping that they would be miraculously cured.
Moved with pity, Jesus approached a man who had been sick longer than Jesus had been alive on earth.
Jesus inquired if he wanted to get well.
The response was immediate.
The man wanted to be healed but he could not see how, for he had no one to help him into the pool.
Jesus then commanded the man to do the impossible—to pick up his mat and walk.
Taking Jesus at his word, the man picked up his mat and began to walk.
What a heartwarming foregleam of what Jesus will do in the new world! In this miracle, we also see Jesus compassion.
He sought out the needy.
Jesus example should motivate us to continue to seek out people in our territory who are depressed about the terrible things happening in this world.
The undeserved gift of Jesus ransom sacrifice was given so that we might gain life.
Referring to this superlative expression of God’s love, the apostle Paul wrote: Christ died for ungodly men at the appointed time.
For hardly would anyone die for a righteous man; though perhaps for a good man someone may dare to die.
But God recommends his own love to us in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
This greatest expression of God’s love opened to mankind the prospect of having a favored standing with Jehovah.
By means of the ransom, Jehovah shows his love for the world of mankind.
If we hope to live forever on earth and we continue to serve Jehovah faithfully, we can be assured that he will make life pleasant for us in the new world.
How fitting it is that we view the ransom as the greatest evidence of God’s enduring love for us!
The privilege of living under Kingdom rule is well worth any effort we make to cooperate with Jehovah’s organization and care for theocratic assignments.
Of course, our circumstances may change.
For instance, some members of the Bethel family in the United States have been reassigned to the field and are now enjoying abundant blessings in other forms of the full-time ministry.
Because of advancing age or other factors, others who were in the traveling work have now received special pioneer assignments.
If we cultivate contentment, pray for God’s help, and do all we can in his service, we will experience joy and will receive many blessings even in these critical last days.
What about our future prospects?
We may have ideas about where we would like to live in the new world, but we may be asked to move to a different area.
Regardless of where we will then serve and what we will do, we can be sure that we will be grateful and contented, brimming with joy.
Although we do not fully understand all that will happen during that time of test, we can expect that it will involve some measure of sacrifice.
In the first century, Christians had to leave behind their possessions and endure hardships in order to survive.
To remain faithful, will we be willing to experience material loss?
Will we be ready to do whatever is required of us to prove our loyalty to Jehovah?
Just think! At that time, we will be the only ones following the example of the ancient prophet Daniel by continuing to worship our God no matter what.
This will not be the time to preach the good news of the Kingdom.
That time will have passed.
The time for the end will have come! No doubt God’s people will proclaim a hard-hitting judgment message.
This may well involve a declaration announcing that Satan’s wicked world is about to come to its complete end.
We should not be surprised if the world hates us for our neutral stand; Jesus warned us that it would.
Most opposers do not appreciate the importance of the issues involved in Christian neutrality.
For us, though, these are matters of utmost importance.
Loyalty to Jehovah requires that we be steadfast in the face of threats.
Fear of man can affect people of all ages, but young people may find it especially difficult to go against the flow, so to speak.
If your children are facing such issues as the flag salute or nationalistic celebrations, do not hesitate to assist them.
Use Family Worship sessions to help your children understand the issues involved so that they can meet those challenges courageously.
Help them to express their personal convictions clearly and respectfully.
Take the initiative to speak with their teachers about these matters if necessary.
No longer perfect, Adam could not reflect God’s qualities perfectly.
He not only lost a marvelous future for himself but also handed down to his children imperfection, sin, and death.
He deprived his offspring of the prospect of life without end.
Furthermore, Adam and Eve could no longer have a perfect child; neither could any of their children have a perfect child.
After turning Adam and Eve away from God, Satan the Devil has continued to mislead mankind until today.
God’s love for humans, however, endures.
Despite Adam and Eve’s rebellion, Jehovah wants mankind to enjoy a good relationship with him.
He does not desire any to die.
So right after the rebellion, God made arrangements to enable humans to restore their friendship with him while he at the same time maintained his own righteous standards.
Appreciation for our role in Jehovah’s service will grow as we, in imitation of our God, look for the good in others.
Instead of seeking the spotlight or always stepping in to take over, we will more often find ourselves modestly seeking the advice of others and yielding to their suggestions.
We will rejoice with them when they receive privileges.
And we will praise Jehovah as we see how he blesses the entire association of our brothers in the world.
Also, we will develop good judgment by modestly learning to see things from Jehovah’s viewpoint.
Through regular study, prayer, and application of what we learn, we can gradually strengthen our conscience.
We learn to put others first.
If we do our part, Jehovah promises that he will finish our training, helping us to develop modesty and other godly qualities.
Those related to us in the faith certainly merit honor and respect.
This is especially true of the elders who are taking the lead.
We honor these brothers regardless of their nationality, education, social standing, or financial status.
The Bible refers to them as gifts in men, and they are a key part of God’s arrangement to care for the needs of his people.
Think of congregation elders, circuit overseers, Branch Committee members, and the members of the Governing Body.
Our brothers and sisters in the first century had high regard for those appointed to take the lead, and we feel similarly today.
We do not idolize well-known representatives of the Christian congregation or react in their presence as if angels were standing nearby.
Still, we do respect and honor such brothers for their hard work and humility.
The Bible Students understood that it was not enough for them to inform relatives, close friends, and church members of their stand on false religion.
The whole world needed to see Babylon the Great for what it is—a religious prostitute! Accordingly, between December 1917 and early 1918, the few thousand Bible Students zealously distributed 10,000,000 copies of a tract featuring the subject The Fall of Babylon—a hard-hitting indictment of Christendom.
As you can imagine, the clergy were furious; but undeterred, the Bible Students kept right on with this important work.
They were determined to obey God as ruler rather than men.
What can we conclude?
That far from becoming enslaved to Babylon the Great during the war, these Christian men and women were breaking free from its influence and were helping others to do so.
Some might imagine that this is a contrast between those who are not in the truth and those who are, between those who are not Christians and those who are.
However, Paul was writing to those who are in Rome as God’s beloved ones, called to be holy ones.
Thus, Paul was contrasting Christians who walked according to the flesh with Christians who walked according to the spirit.
He linked living according to the flesh with the sinful passions that were then at work in their bodies.
So when speaking of those who set their minds on the things of the flesh, Paul was referring to people who are ruled by or focused on their desires and leanings as imperfect humans.
In the main, these are ones who follow their cravings, impulses, and passions, whether sexual or otherwise.
Some anxiety may be caused by a person’s past actions or failings.
At times, King David felt that his errors loomed over his head.
He admitted: My anguished heart makes me groan aloud.
In that situation, what was the wise thing for David to do?
What did he do?
He trusted in Jehovah’s mercy and forgiveness.
At other times, you may become anxious about the present.
For instance, when David wrote , he feared for his life.
Nevertheless, he did not allow anxiety to destroy his confidence in Jehovah.
David made his problems a subject of fervent prayer, but he also understood the value of taking practical steps to deal with the cause of the anxiety.
Learn a lesson from David.
Instead of allowing anxiety to overwhelm you, take what steps you can to deal with the situation and then confidently leave matters in Jehovah’s hands.
David accepted correction from Jehovah’s representative, the prophet Nathan.
David also prayed to Jehovah, confessing his sins and expressing a sincere desire to be restored to Jehovah’s favor.
Instead of being paralyzed by guilt, David learned from his mistakes.
Indeed, he never repeated those serious sins.
Years later, he died faithful, his record of integrity firmly sealed in Jehovah’s memory.
What can we learn from David’s example?
If we fall into serious sin, we need to repent sincerely and seek Jehovah’s forgiveness.
We must confess our sins to him.
We also need to approach the elders, who can offer us spiritual help.
By availing ourselves of Jehovah’s arrangements, we show that we trust in his promise to heal and forgive us.
Thereafter, we do well to learn from our mistakes, move forward in our service to Jehovah, and look to the future with confidence.
Jesus compared himself to a shepherd, and his followers to a flock of sheep.
Consider: If two sheep are on a hill, two other sheep are in a valley, and still another sheep is grazing elsewhere, would we describe those five sheep as a flock?
Generally, a flock of sheep stays together under the care of its shepherd.
Similarly, we cannot follow our Shepherd if we deliberately isolate ourselves.
We need to meet together with other Christians to be part of one flock under one shepherd.
When we attend a meeting, we contribute to the unity of our brotherhood.
Some of our fellow worshippers have been rejected by their parents and siblings.
Yet, Jesus promised that he would give them a spiritual family to love them and care for them.
When you attend meetings regularly, you may very well prove to be a father, mother, brother, or sister to one of these dear ones! Does that not motivate us to do our utmost to be at all the meetings?
When you receive a gift, what do you do?
Most likely you show your appreciation in some way.
In addition, you will likely make good use of the gift, not taking it for granted.
Jehovah unfailingly provides what we need to live and to be happy.
Does that not move us to want to love him in return?
The Israelites lived under Jehovah’s loving care for hundreds of years and were bountifully blessed by him, in both material and spiritual ways.
Their continuing to receive such blessings, however, was contingent on their obeying God’s Law, which included regularly offering to Jehovah the best of the first ripe fruits of the land.
The Israelites would thus demonstrate that they did not take for granted Jehovah’s love and blessings.
Jehovah created humans with remarkable abilities.
He gave us thinking ability to solve problems and plan for the future.
He gave us power to carry out our plans, enabling us to work toward proper goals.
He also created us with a conscience—an inborn sense of right and wrong—that can help us avoid wrongdoing and correct our mistakes when we fall short.
Through his Word, Jehovah repeatedly admonishes us to use our abilities for good.
For example, in the Hebrew Scriptures, we read: The plans of the diligent surely lead to success; and whatever your hand finds to do, do with all your might.
In the Christian Greek Scriptures, we are told: As long as we have the opportunity, let us work what is good toward all; and to the extent that each one has received a gift, use it in ministering to one another.
Clearly, Jehovah wants us to do what we can to benefit ourselves and others.
Jehovah’s people have turned their back on the fruit that they used to produce before they came to know, love, and serve God.
Their past way of life may have included things of which they are now ashamed and that would have merited death.
Then they changed.
That was true of many in Corinth to whom Paul wrote.
Some had been idolaters, adulterers, homosexuals, thieves, drunkards, and the like.
Yet, they were washed clean and sanctified.
That was likely also true of some in the Roman congregation.
Paul was inspired to write to them: Neither go on presenting your bodies to sin as weapons of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, also your bodies to God as weapons of righteousness.
Paul was sure that they could remain spiritually clean and thus continue to benefit from God’s undeserved kindness.
Sometime during King Jeroboam’s reign, Jehovah sent a certain prophet from Judah to deliver a scathing judgment message to that apostate king of Israel.
The humble prophet faithfully delivered God’s message, and Jehovah protected his servant from Jeroboam’s violent wrath.
On his way home, the prophet unexpectedly met up with an old man from nearby Bethel.
The man claimed to be a prophet of Jehovah.
He deceived the younger man into disobeying Jehovah’s strict instructions not to eat bread or drink water in Israel and not to return by the way that he came.
Jehovah was not pleased.
Later, on his way home, a lion came across Jehovah’s prophet on the road and killed him.
Why did the once modest prophet presumptuously go along with that deceitful older man?
The Bible does not say.
But it could be that he completely forgot that he was supposed to be walking modestly with God.
The descendants of Adam and Eve inherited imperfection and death from their disobedient parents.
However, they retained the right to exercise the gift of free will.
This is evident in the way God dealt with the nation of Israel.
Through his servant Moses, Jehovah gave the people the choice to accept or reject the privilege of becoming His special property.
What was their response?
They freely chose to carry out the conditions of becoming God’s name people and unanimously declared: All that Jehovah has spoken, we are willing to do.
Sadly, in time the nation misused its freedom of choice and broke that promise.
Let us heed this warning example and always treasure our gift of free will by continuing to stick close to Jehovah and obeying his righteous requirements.
Since holy spirit is an invisible force, how could the Israelites discern that it was operating on Moses?
Holy spirit enabled Moses to perform miracles and to declare God’s name to Pharaoh.
Holy spirit also produced in Moses beautiful qualities, such as love, meekness, and patience, that qualified him to lead the Israelites.
The evidence was clear: Jehovah had selected Moses to be the leader of His people.
Later, Jehovah’s holy spirit empowered other men whom he appointed to lead his people.
Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom.
Jehovah’s spirit came upon Gideon.
And the spirit of Jehovah began to empower David.
All those men relied on God’s spirit to help them, and that spirit empowered them to perform feats that they could not have done in their own strength.
The faithful slave has exercised outstanding faith by zealously promoting and spreading the Kingdom good news.
Are you one of the other sheep who supports the anointed in this vital work?
How happy you will feel when your Leader, Jesus, says: To the extent that you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.
When Jesus returned to heaven, he did not abandon his followers.
He knew firsthand how much the holy spirit, the angels, and God’s Word helped him to take the lead when he was on earth.
Therefore, he has supplied the faithful slave today with the same assistance.
As anointed Christians, the members of that slave keep following the Lamb no matter where he goes.
As we follow their direction, therefore, we follow our Leader, Jesus.
Soon, he will lead us to everlasting life.
And no human leader can promise that!
Paul set a fine example of respecting his brothers right of free will to make decisions.
Today, when giving counsel on matters involving personal choice, the elders should follow that pattern.
They are happy to share Bible-based information with others in the flock.
Still, the elders are careful to allow individual brothers and sisters to make their own decisions.
That is logical because those individuals will bear the responsibility for the results.
Here is an important lesson: We can show helpful interest in others and call attention to Scriptural principles or counsel.
Still, others have a right and responsibility to make their own decisions.
When they do this wisely, they benefit.
Clearly, we should avoid any tendency to think that we are authorized to make decisions for other brothers and sisters.
Many people think that there is little connection between what they are doing and what God is doing.
In fact, some believe that God has little interest in what is happening to humans.
After Super Typhoon Haiyan wreaked destruction on the central Philippines in November 2013, the mayor of one large city said: God must have been somewhere else.
Other people act as if God cannot see what they are doing.
They are like those whom the apostle Paul described when he said: They did not see fit to acknowledge God.
Such people were filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, and badness.
What about us?
Unlike those mentioned above, we realize that Jehovah observes everything we do.
But do we also perceive his interest and supporting hand in our life?
Although circumstances may deprive you of a Bible, you will never be deprived of the ability to meditate on what you have stored in your memory, such as your favorite scriptures and the words of Kingdom songs.
And God’s spirit can help bring back to your mind the good things you have learned.
So prepare now by setting aside time to read and meditate on the weekly Bible reading.
Time should also be set aside for meditating on what Jesus said and did.
You will surely agree that among the better-known books of the Bible are the Gospel accounts of Jesus life and ministry.
God’s people have even been provided with a publication that puts Jesus experiences and time on earth in chronological order.
It is a wonderful aid, especially if we carefully read and meditate on the parallel Gospel passages cited in each chapter.
Jesus was a loving and loyal friend.
In Bible times, a master did not normally share his private thoughts and feelings with his slaves.
However, Jesus proved to be both master and friend to his faithful apostles.
He spent time with them, shared his feelings with them, and carefully listened when they poured out their hearts to him.
Such loving communication created a warm bond between Jesus and his apostles and prepared them for future responsibilities in God’s service.
Jesus wanted his beloved disciples and friends to experience the joy that comes from a busy life in Jehovah’s service.
Therefore, he desired that they zealously participate in spiritual activities.
Indeed, Jesus wanted them to be ardent disciple-makers! And he lovingly assured his disciples that he would help them to succeed.
Love is Jehovah God’s dominant quality.
His first creation was Jesus, who existed with him in heaven for many aeons and learned God’s loving ways.
By his entire course, including his life on earth, Jesus showed that he fully understands what a loving God Jehovah is, and he imitates that love.
Thus, we can be confident that the rulership exercised by Jehovah and Jesus will forever be guided by the quality of love.
When asked which was the greatest commandment in the Law, Jesus stated: You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind.
This is the greatest and first commandment.
The second, like it, is this: You must love your neighbor as yourself.
Notice that Jesus placed love of neighbor second only to love of Jehovah.
This shows how important it is to display love in all our relationships.
God did not restrict his communication with humans to Hebrew.
After the Babylonian exile, Aramaic became the everyday language of some of God’s people.
Perhaps to indicate what was to come, Jehovah inspired the prophets Daniel and Jeremiah and the priest Ezra to record portions of their Bible books in Aramaic.
Alexander the Great later conquered much of the ancient world, and common, or Koine, Greek became an international language.
Many Jews began to speak that language, leading to the translation of the Hebrew Scriptures into Greek.
This translation, thought to have been done by 72 translators, became known as the Septuagint.
It was the first translation of the Bible and one of the most important.
The work of so many translators resulted in varied translation styles, from literal to rather free.
Nevertheless, the Septuagint was viewed as God’s Word by Greek-speaking Jews and later by Christians.
The point of James illustration is made clear in verse 6.
The tongue is also a fire.
The tongue represents our ability to speak.
Like fire, our speech has the potential for causing great harm.
The Bible even says that death and life are in the power of the tongue.
Of course, we do not stop talking just out of concern that we might say something harmful, any more than we refuse to use fire because we fear the damage it might cause.
The key is control.
If we control fire, we can use it to cook our food, warm our bodies, and light up a dark night.
If we tame our tongue, we can use its power to honor God and to benefit others.
Whether we use sounds from our mouth or signs with our hands, the ability to communicate our thoughts and feelings is a marvelous gift from God.
This gift, however, should be used to build up, not tear down.
It is reasonable to believe that Luke gave Paul medical advice and rendered medical services to him and to others in his missionary group.
Why would Luke need to do that?
Because even Paul got sick while traveling.
Luke could provide medical help that was in line with what Jesus had said: Those who are healthy do not need a physician, but those who are ill do.
The Bible does not indicate where or when Luke received his medical training.
It has been suggested that Paul mentioned to Christians in Colossae the role of Luke as a physician because they knew him.
Interestingly, there was a medical school in nearby Laodicea.
In any event, Luke was not some untrained layman spouting health recommendations; he was a physician.
That is evident both from the specific medical language that Luke used in his Gospel and in the book of Acts and from the way he focused on Jesus healings of others.
When Jehovah sent his only-begotten Son to this earth, He gave what would become the greatest possible gift of love! The apostle Paul called it God’s indescribable free gift.
Paul knew that all the magnificent promises of God were guaranteed through the perfect sacrifice of Christ.
Thus, that indescribable free gift would include all the goodness and loyal love that Jehovah would extend to us through Jesus.
Indeed, that gift is so awe-inspiring that it cannot be fully described in human terms.
How should receiving such an extraordinary gift affect us?
And in what practical ways should this gift motivate us?
Does it compel you to reconsider your actions and even change the way you have been living your life?
Are you moved to be more generous and loving toward others and to forgive any who have wronged you?
Remember, what Jehovah has given us through Christ is by far the greatest gift ever given.
Adam was the one man through whom sin and death entered into the world.
Thus by the trespass of the one man death ruled as king.
Paul added that the abundance of God’s undeserved kindness came about through the one person, Jesus Christ.
And that undeserved kindness has resulted in good for all mankind.
Through the obedience of the one person Jesus many will be made righteous.
Actually, God’s undeserved kindness can lead to everlasting life through Jesus Christ.
Jehovah was not obliged to have his Son come to earth to provide the ransom.
Moreover, imperfect, sinful humans did not of themselves merit, or deserve, what God and Jesus did in providing a ransom by which forgiveness was possible.
So our being forgiven and offered the prospect of living forever is truly a kindness that is undeserved.
We should highly value the gift of God’s undeserved kindness and let it affect our life daily.
Self-examination is important.
Why?
Paul wrote: Setting the mind on the flesh means death.
That is serious—spiritual death now and physical death in the future.
Still, Paul did not mean that if someone began to set the mind on the flesh his end unavoidably would be death.
Change is possible.
Think of the immoral man in Corinth who went after the flesh and had to be disfellowshipped.
Yet, he could and did change.
He ceased to walk after the flesh and returned to a straight path.
If it was possible for that person to change, it is possible for a Christian today to change, especially one who has not gone after the flesh as far as the man in Corinth had.
Certainly, Paul’s warning about the possible final outcome for someone who sets his or her mind on the flesh should be a stimulus to Christians to make any needed changes!
How comforting it is for us to throw our burden on Jehovah, knowing that he will sustain us’! We can have full confidence that God can do more than superabundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive.
Imagine that—not just abundantly and not superabundantly but more than superabundantly! To receive the reward, we need to exercise full faith in Jehovah and be obedient to his directions.
Moses told the nation of Israel: Jehovah will surely bless you in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, but only if you strictly obey the voice of Jehovah your God and carefully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today.
For Jehovah your God will bless you just as he has promised you.
Do you have full confidence that Jehovah will bless you if you continue to serve him faithfully?
You certainly have good reason for such confidence.
This was not an arbitrary choice.
Jehovah was being true to a promise that he had made centuries earlier to his friend Abraham.
Furthermore, Jehovah always exercises his freedom in harmony with his attributes of love and justice.
This is evident in the way he disciplined the Israelites, who repeatedly abandoned true worship.
When they expressed heartfelt repentance, Jehovah willingly extended love and mercy, saying: I will heal their unfaithfulness.
I will love them of my own free will.
What a fine example of using his freedom for the benefit of others! When Jehovah began his creative works, he lovingly chose to bestow free will on his intelligent creatures.
The first one to receive this gift was his firstborn Son, the image of the invisible God.
Even before coming to earth, Jesus chose to remain loyal to his Father and not join Satan in his rebellion.
Our changing circumstances can expand or limit our sphere of operation.
Are you young or up in years?
Is your health good or fragile?
Jehovah always considers how each of us might best be used in his service.
He only expects from us what is reasonable, and he greatly appreciates whatever we do.
Jesus found joy in every one of his assignments, and we can find joy in ours.
A modest person does not feel cramped by his current assignments or responsibilities in the congregation.
He does not worry about gaining future privileges or about what others are achieving.
Instead, he focuses his energies on finding purpose and enjoyment in his present role because he views it as coming from Jehovah.
At the same time, he sincerely respects the role or place that Jehovah has given to others.
Modesty helps us to enjoy giving others due honor and support.
Some younger ones may now be coordinating activities that include older brothers.
Though such younger ones have a changed role, they would do well to benefit from the wisdom and experience of older ones before making decisions.
Timothy, a younger man, worked alongside the apostle Paul for many years.
Paul had written to the Corinthians: I am sending Timothy to you, because he is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord.
He will remind you of my methods in connection with Christ Jesus.
This brief statement points to the close cooperation between Paul and Timothy.
Paul had taken time to teach Timothy his methods.
Timothy learned well and had won Paul’s affection, and Paul was confident that Timothy could care for the spiritual needs of those in Corinth.
What a fine example for elders to imitate today as they train other men to take the lead in the congregation!
Jehovah wants people to live, not die.
As the Source of life, he becomes the Father of everyone who is resurrected.
How appropriate, therefore, that Jesus taught us to pray: Our Father in the heavens.
Jehovah has given Jesus an important share in resurrecting the dead.
In Paradise, Jesus will fulfill his role as the resurrection and the life.
Jehovah’s generosity is not limited to a few privileged people, for Jesus said: Whoever does the will of God, this one is my brother and sister and mother.
It is God’s will that a numberless great crowd from all nations and tribes and tongues become his worshippers.
Those who exercise faith in Christ’s ransom and who do the will of God can be among those who shout: Salvation we owe to our God, who is seated on the throne, and to the Lamb.
To disseminate Bible truth in various languages, Zion’s Watch Tower Tract Society was legally incorporated in 1884, with Charles Taze Russell as president.
He was an outstanding student of the Bible, and he fearlessly exposed as false such doctrines as the Trinity and the immortality of the soul.
He discerned that Christ would return invisibly and that the appointed times of the nations would end in 1914.
Brother Russell devoted his time, energy, and money unsparingly to share these truths with others.
Clearly, at that pivotal time, Brother Russell was used by Jehovah and the head of the congregation.
Brother Russell did not seek glory from humans.
In 1896, he wrote: We want no homage, no reverence, for ourselves or our writings; nor do we wish to be called Reverend or Rabbi.
Nor do we wish that any should be called by our name.
He later stated: This is not man’s work.
We all have choices and decisions to make.
Not every one of our decisions is a life-and-death matter.
However, many of our decisions, the choices we make, can have a profound effect on us.
Hence, the ability to make good decisions can help us to live a relatively smooth, peaceful life rather than one that is full of chaos, controversy, and disappointment.
What will help us to make wise decisions?
We certainly need faith in God, not doubting his willingness and ability to help us to be wise.
We also need faith in Jehovah’s Word and in his way of doing things, trusting God’s inspired counsel.
As we draw close to him and grow in love for his Word, we come to trust his judgment.
Accordingly, we develop the habit of consulting God’s Word before making decisions.
Our loving God always does what is in the best interests of his faithful servants.
The Bible tells us: He will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
What a marvelous future awaits all of us who truly appreciate Jehovah’s love and obey him as our Ruler! Jehovah’s Word tells us: Take note of the blameless one, and keep the upright one in sight, for the future of that man will be peaceful.
But all the transgressors will be destroyed.
The blameless one comes to know Jehovah and his Son and obediently does God’s will.
Such a person takes seriously the words of : The world is passing away and so is its desire, but the one who does the will of God remains forever.
As the world’s end draws near, it is urgent that we hope in Jehovah and follow his way.
When the Israelites adopted the sinful ways of the Canaanites, Jehovah no longer granted them his protective care.
What a challenge it must have been for God-fearing families to remain loyal to Jehovah during those hard years! Nevertheless, the Bible reveals that there were faithful ones, such as Jephthah, Elkanah, Hannah, and Samuel, who were determined to gain God’s approval.
We live in a world where people think and act in ways that are similar to those in ancient Canaan—they glorify sex and violence and promote materialism.
Jehovah has given us clear warnings—just as he did the Israelites—to safeguard us from such influences.
Will we learn from the mistakes of the Israelites?
We must strive to remove any trace of Canaanitelike thinking from our lives.
Have we been faithful in making an effort to do so?
When we are faced with serious decisions, it is vital to draw on the Bible as the best source of advice and to seek Jehovah’s guidance in prayer.
Jehovah can give us the qualities we need to make decisions that are in harmony with his will.
Make it a practice to ask: Will this decision give evidence of my love for Jehovah?
Will it bring joy and peace to my family?
And will it show that I am patient and kind?
Jehovah does not coerce us into loving him and serving him.
In line with the free will that he grants us, he respects our responsibility and right to choose for ourselves whether we will serve him.
But he expects us to follow through on other decisions that we make based on his guidance.
With faith in Jehovah’s way of doing things and the principles that he has kindly provided, we can make wise decisions and prove ourselves steady in all our ways.
Martha is busy preparing a special meal for Jesus, and she becomes irritated with Mary.
Jesus notices that Martha is trying to do too much, so he kindly says: Martha, Martha, you are anxious and disturbed about many things.
He then suggests that just one dish of food would be sufficient.
Jesus now turns his attention to Mary and clears her of any negligence, saying: For her part, Mary chose the good portion, and it will not be taken away from her.
Mary may soon have forgotten what she ate on that special occasion, but she would never forget the commendation and fine spiritual food she received by giving Jesus her undivided attention.
More than 60 years later, the apostle John wrote: Jesus loved Martha and her sister.
These inspired words surely indicate that Martha took to heart Jesus loving correction and that she strove to serve Jehovah faithfully for the rest of her life.
Jehovah’s Witnesses continue to rejoice in their hope despite intense and ongoing persecution.
For example, many of our brothers and sisters are imprisoned in Eritrea, Singapore, and South Korea, in most cases because of acting in harmony with Jesus words not to take up the sword.
Most of Jehovah’s people have not had to endure severe persecution.
Their tests of faith have been different.
Many have had to endure poverty or have suffered during civil wars or natural disasters.
Others are like Moses and the patriarchs in that they have given up a life of worldly ease or fame.
They fight hard to resist being tempted to live a materialistic, self-centered lifestyle.
What is it that enables them to do this?
Their love for Jehovah and their strong faith in the promise that he will correct all injustices and reward his faithful servants with everlasting life in a new world of righteousness.
Jesus was not afraid to ask his followers what they believed.
Imitate his example.
It is best, in a relaxed setting, to invite your children to express their feelings.
If a child is unsure about some teaching, try not to react too strongly or to respond as if you were on the defensive.
Patiently help him to reason on the matter.
It is helpful to view your child’s sincere questions as an indication that he cares and wants to understand.
Even at 12 years of age, Jesus asked serious questions.
Get to know your children well—their thinking, their feelings, their concerns.
Never assume that they have faith simply because they attend Christian meetings and share in the field service with you.
Include spiritual discussions in your daily activities.
Pray with and for your children.
Try to be aware of any tests to their faith, and help them to deal with these.
Serving shoulder to shoulder with our brothers and sisters promotes unity.
It also builds lasting friendships and increases mutual confidence in the coming blessings under God’s Kingdom.
As we strengthen the hands of others, we help them to battle discouraging circumstances and to maintain a positive and hopeful view of the future.
Moreover, doing that for others helps us to keep our spiritual focus and to feel the reality of what God has in store for us.
Yes, it strengthens our hands too.
Seeing how Jehovah on different occasions supported and protected his faithful servants in the past should build our faith and trust in him today.
So when you face pressures and problems, do not let your hands drop down! Instead, reach out to Jehovah in prayer, and allow his mighty hand to strengthen you and lead you to Kingdom blessings.
Declaring the good news of the Kingdom was Jesus primary assignment.
However, he took time to train others to be shepherds and teachers.
Although Philip was busy as an evangelizer, he no doubt helped his four daughters to become effective in sharing Scriptural truths with others.
How important is such training today?
Worldwide, the number of people accepting the good news is growing.
New ones who are not yet baptized need to grasp the importance of personal Bible study.
They must also be taught to preach the good news to others and to teach them the truth.
In our congregations, brothers need to be encouraged to work hard in order to qualify for appointment as ministerial servants and elders.
By means of good instruction, mature Christians can help new ones to make spiritual progress.
A solid marriage is made up of two people who make allowances for each other’s imperfections.
They continue putting up with each other and forgiving each other freely.
Yes, both mates will make mistakes.
When that happens, however, there are opportunities to learn from these errors, to be forgiving, and to let love have full sway as a perfect bond of union.
Moreover, love is patient and kind.
It does not keep account of the injury.
Misunderstandings should be cleared away as soon as possible.
A Christian couple, therefore, should try to settle any issue between them before the day ends.
Sincerely saying I am sorry for hurting you takes humility and courage, but it goes a long way in solving problems and drawing marriage partners closer together.
To keep awake spiritually means more than just having good intentions.
A few days before the incident in the garden of Gethsemane, Jesus told those same disciples to make supplication to Jehovah.
So to remain spiritually watchful, we too must stay alert in prayer.
Since Jesus said that the end will come at an hour that we do not think to be it, this is no time to doze off spiritually, no time to pursue the illusions and fantasies that Satan and his world offer and that our flesh craves.
Through the pages of the Bible, God and Christ tell us what they have in store for us in the immediate future and how we can keep on the watch.
We have to pay attention to our spirituality, to our relationship with Jehovah, and to Kingdom priorities.
We must be aware of time and events so that we can be ready for what is coming.
Our life is at stake!
It is not easy to control our emotions when we feel that we have been slighted or treated unjustly.
It can be devastating if we are mistreated because of our ethnic background, the color of our skin, or some other physical difference.
How much greater the pain is if it is caused by a fellow Christian! How wise it is to apply the Bible’s counsel to control our temper and avoid being quick to take offense! No doubt all of us need to work at being less sensitive and more forgiving.
Jehovah and Jesus take forgiveness very seriously.
Do you need to be more forgiving or to give attention to controlling your emotions?
People who fail to control their emotions often become bitter.
As a result, others may not want to be around them.
A bitter individual can exert a bad influence in the congregation.
The environment in which Jehovah is now molding us is viewed as a spiritual paradise that is presently taking shape.
We feel safe and secure despite the wicked world around us.
We have come to know Jehovah and now experience his fatherly love.
In the new world, we will experience to the full the blessings of the spiritual paradise.
Then, our spiritual paradise will have its perfect counterpart—a literal paradise under the rulership of God’s Kingdom.
During that time of global restoration, Jehovah will continue to mold earth’s inhabitants, educating them to a degree that we might now find hard to imagine.
Furthermore, God will make our minds and bodies perfect, so that we will be able to absorb his teaching and do his will flawlessly.
So let us be determined to continue submitting to Jehovah, showing him that we view his molding as an expression of his love for us.
For the first few centuries of our Common Era, many people could read the Bible in either Greek or Latin.
They were thus in a position to compare the teachings of God’s Word with the dogmas of the church.
On the basis of what they read in the Bible, some among them rejected the unscriptural creeds of the church, but it was dangerous—even fatal—to express such opinions openly.
In time, Bible languages fell into disuse by the masses, and the church opposed efforts to translate God’s Word into the common tongues.
Any dissent from what the church taught was severely punished.
Faithful anointed servants of God had to meet together in discreet groups—if they could meet at all.
The anointed royal priesthood could not function in an organized way.
Babylon the Great held the people in a viselike grip!
We must certainly avoid choosing to practice the serious sins that some in Corinth had been guilty of.
That is vital if we are to say that we have accepted God’s undeserved kindness and that sin is not master over us.
However, are we also determined to be obedient from the heart by doing our best to avoid sins that some would view as less serious?
Think of the apostle Paul.
We can be sure that he was not sharing in the gross wrongs mentioned at .
Nonetheless, he confessed that he was still guilty of sin.
He wrote: I am fleshly, sold under sin.
For I do not understand what I am doing.
For I do not practice what I wish, but I do what I hate.
This shows that there were other things that Paul viewed as sins, and he was fighting against those wrongs too.
May that also be true of us as we strive to be obedient from the heart.
When you are confronted by situations that cause uneasiness, apprehension, or anxiety, pour out your heart to your loving heavenly Father.
After you have done all you can to solve a problem, heartfelt prayer will certainly accomplish more than worry.
As shown at , Jehovah can respond to our earnest, heartfelt, and persistent supplications.
How?
By giving us inner calm that can free our mind and heart of disturbing emotions.
Many can testify to this, based on their own experience.
In place of anxiety, a distressing sense of foreboding, God helped them to gain a profound sense of peace and tranquillity that actually surpassed human understanding.
That can be your experience too.
Thus the peace of God can triumph over any challenge you may face.
You can fully trust Jehovah’s compassionate promise: Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
I will fortify you, yes, I will help you.
Moses turned his back on the treasures of Egypt, choosing to be mistreated with the people of God rather than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin.
May we imitate the faith of loyal ancient ones, such as Moses, by treasuring our gift of free will and using it to do God’s will.
While it might seem easier to have someone else make decisions for us, doing so would rob us of one of the great blessings of free will.
That blessing is revealed at .
Verse 19 describes the choice that God gave to the Israelites.
In verse 20 we learn that Jehovah gave them the precious opportunity to show him what was in their hearts.
We too can choose to worship Jehovah.
We could have no greater motive than to use God’s gift of free will to express our love for him and to bring him honor and glory!
Jehovah expects us to put to good use the abilities with which he has endowed us.
Why?
Because he loves us, and he knows that it brings us satisfaction when we employ these gifts.
At the same time, Jehovah knows that humans have limitations.
On our own, we can never eliminate imperfection, sin, and death; neither can we control other people, for all have free will.
And no matter how much knowledge or experience we gain, we will always be like children in comparison with Jehovah.
In all circumstances, we need to lean on Jehovah for guidance, trusting in him to support us and do for us what we cannot do for ourselves.
At the same time, we should do what we can, taking appropriate action to solve problems and help others.
In short, we need both to trust in Jehovah and to do what is good’; we need to act with faithfulness.
Barzillai declined the offer.
Why?
Because of his advanced age, he told David that he did not want to become a burden to the king.
So Barzillai recommended that Chimham, presumably one of his sons, take his place.
Modesty helped Barzillai to make a reasonable decision.
He did not turn down David’s invitation because he felt inadequate to shoulder responsibility or because he wanted to enjoy a quiet life in retirement.
He simply recognized and accepted his changing circumstances and his limitations.
He did not want to take on more than he reasonably could.
If we focus on position, prominence, or recognition, it only provides a breeding ground for egotism, competition, and eventual disappointment.
Modesty, however, helps all to focus their collective abilities and efforts on bringing glory to God and doing what is best to help others.
Jehovah is an awe-inspiring Creator.
Everything he creates meets the highest standards.
As is evident in creation, Jehovah lovingly set boundaries.
He made both natural laws and moral laws to ensure that everything functions harmoniously.
Hence, all things in the universe have an assigned place and function according to their role in God’s purpose.
Jehovah sets the standard for how his creation should work together.
Thus, the law of gravity holds the atmosphere close to the earth, regulates tides and oceans, and contributes to the physical order essential to life on earth.
All creation, including humans, moves and functions within these boundaries.
Clearly, the order in creation testifies that God has a purpose for earth and mankind.
In our ministry, can we draw attention to the Cause of this impressive order?
After Moses time, his successor, Joshua, was strengthened by the prince of Jehovah’s army to lead God’s people into battle against the Canaanites.
Later, King Hezekiah faced an overwhelming force of Assyrian soldiers who threatened to invade Jerusalem.
In one night, the angel of Jehovah went out and struck down 185,000 men.
Of course, while the angels are perfect, the men whom they assisted were not.
Moses once failed to sanctify Jehovah.
Joshua neglected to seek God’s guidance before concluding a covenant with the Gibeonites.
For a brief period, Hezekiah’s heart became haughty.
Nevertheless, despite the imperfections of these men, the Israelites were expected to follow their lead.
Jehovah was supporting those men with his superhuman agents.
Yes, Jehovah was leading his people.
A popular philosophy or common adage is: Follow your heart.
But doing that can be dangerous.
And in a sense, doing so is unscriptural.
The Bible warns us not to let our imperfect heart or mere sentiment rule when we are making decisions.
And Bible accounts show the sad consequences of following one’s heart.
The core problem is that in imperfect humans, the heart is more treacherous than anything else and is desperate.
So, what could it mean for us if we simply follow our heart and let our emotions dictate our thinking and actions?
For example, what might happen if we make decisions when we are angry?
The answer may be obvious if we have done this in times past.
Or is it likely that we will make sound decisions when we are discouraged?
Clearly, we could easily be deceived by our emotions if we allow them to prevail when we are making important decisions.
Among the crowds in Jerusalem were some Greek proselytes who evidently were so impressed with Jesus that they asked the apostle Philip to arrange a meeting with him.
Jesus, however, refused to be distracted from the more important matters that lay ahead.
He certainly did not want to try to gain popularity in order to avoid a sacrificial death at the hands of God’s enemies.
So after explaining that he would soon die, he said to Andrew and Philip: Whoever is fond of his life destroys it, but whoever hates his life in this world will safeguard it for everlasting life.
Rather than satisfy the curiosity of those Greeks, he recommended following his self-sacrificing course and said the words of today’s text.
No doubt, Philip carried this positive message back to the inquirers.
Though Jesus refused to be distracted from his main purpose of preaching the good news, he was not always thinking about work.
Even when we are persecuted, we do our best to live according to God’s righteous principles and laws.
By performing righteous deeds, we let our light shine and thus bring glory to Jehovah’s name.
As holy people, we prove by the way we live our lives that Jehovah’s laws are good and that Satan’s accusations are false.
When we make mistakes, as we all do, we genuinely repent and turn away from practices that dishonor Jehovah.
On the basis of Christ’s sacrifice, Jehovah forgives the sins of those who exercise faith.
He accepts as his worshippers those who dedicate themselves to him.
Jehovah declares anointed Christians righteous as his sons and those of the other sheep righteous as his friends.
So even now, the ransom enables us to have a righteous standing with our Father and to share in the sanctification of his name.
We too can pour out our concerns to Jehovah, knowing that he will hear us and strengthen us to endure with joy.
And when our prayers are answered, our faith gets stronger.
Since faith is an aspect of the fruitage of the spirit, we need to keep on asking for God’s spirit, as Jesus urged us to do.
Our prayers, though, should not be limited to asking God for personal help.
Too numerous to recount are the wonderful works we can thank and praise Jehovah for daily! Also, our prayers should reflect that we keep in mind those in prison, as though we were imprisoned with them.
And we should pray for our worldwide brotherhood, especially those who are taking the lead among us.
Our hearts are touched when we see how Jehovah answers our united prayers!—.
Boaz was clearly concerned about Ruth and her precarious situation as a foreigner.
For one thing, he invited her to stay with his group of young women so that she would not be harassed by the men who were working in the field.
He even made sure that she would get enough food and water, just like the hired workers.
In addition, Boaz did not speak down to the poor foreign woman but, instead, reassured her.
Not only was Boaz moved by Ruth’s unselfish love for her mother-in-law, Naomi, but he was also impressed that she had become a worshipper of Jehovah.
Boaz kindness was actually an expression of Jehovah’s loyal love toward a woman who had come to seek refuge under the wings of the God of Israel.
Similarly today, our kindly demeanor can help all sorts of people recognize the truth and sense how much Jehovah loves them.
Consider the courage and honesty of the men who wrote the Bible.
Many ancient writers flattered their leaders and glorified their kingdoms.
Jehovah’s prophets, however, always spoke the truth.
They were willing to point out the shortcomings of their own people, even their kings.
And they made plain their own failings and those of other servants of God.
Because of the guiding principles found in the Bible, many are convinced that it was inspired by God.
Bible principles protect us from sharing in false worship and from superstitions that enslave many people.
Such teachings as evolution tend to make nature into a sort of god, giving it powers that belong only to Jehovah.
Those who say that there is no God claim that our future is entirely in our own hands.
They, however, offer no sure hope for a better future.
God’s Law to the Israelites showed Jehovah’s strong feelings against clothing that does not make clear the distinction between male and female—what has been described in our day as unisex fashion.
From God’s stated direction about clothing, we clearly see that God is not pleased with styles of dress that feminize men, that make women look like men, or that make it hard to see the difference between men and women.
God’s Word contains principles that help Christians make good decisions about how to dress.
That is so no matter where they live, what their culture is, or what the climate is.
We do not need detailed lists saying which styles of dress are acceptable and which are objectionable.
Rather, we are guided by Scriptural principles that allow room for personal preferences.
Jehovah is able and willing to give us strength by means of his holy spirit.
It is vital that we draw on that spirit so that we can face any challenge that Satan and his wicked system thrust upon us.
Also, we can be grateful that we have God’s Word, which is a product of holy spirit.
Think, too, about the spiritual food based on the Bible that we receive each month.
The words of were spoken while the temple in Jerusalem was being rebuilt, and those words are very fitting for us.
We are also made stronger by divine education at our Christian meetings, assemblies, conventions, and in our theocratic schools.
That training can help us to have the proper motivation, to set spiritual goals, and to fulfill our many Christian responsibilities.
Do you eagerly seek to gain strength from that type of education?
Young people have the strength needed to accomplish much in Jehovah’s service.
Some young brothers in Bethel service have a part in printing and binding Bibles and Bible literature.
Many young brothers and sisters share in the work of building and maintaining Kingdom Halls.
When natural disasters strike, young people join more experienced Witnesses in carrying through with relief efforts.
And many young pioneers help to take the good news to indigenous and foreign-language communities.
The psalmist sang: Those seeking Jehovah will lack nothing good.
Indeed, Jehovah never disappoints those who zealously serve him.
We personally taste and see that Jehovah is good as we do all we can in his service.
And when we give God whole-souled worship, we experience happiness that has no equal.
A legal divorce not based on sexual immorality would not free one to remarry.
Of course, a person might choose to forgive an adulterous but repentant mate, even as the prophet Hosea apparently forgave his immoral wife, Gomer.
Similarly, Jehovah extended mercy to repentant Israel after that nation’s spiritual adultery.
It might be added that if a person knows that his or her mate committed adultery and chooses to resume sexual relations with the guilty mate, such an action constitutes forgiveness and removes a Scriptural basis for divorce.
After saying the words of today’s text, Jesus spoke of those who have the gift of living a single life.
He added: Let the one who can make room for it make room for it.
Many have chosen to remain single in order to serve Jehovah with an undivided mind.
For doing so, they are to be commended.
While undeserved kindness from Jehovah provides us with many blessings, we should not presumptuously think that he condones all conduct.
Among the early Christians, there were some who attempted to turn the undeserved kindness of God into an excuse for brazen conduct.
These unfaithful Christians apparently thought that they could sin and then count on Jehovah to forgive them.
Worse still, they endeavored to entice their brothers to join them in their contemptuous ways.
Even today, anyone doing that has outraged the spirit of undeserved kindness.
Today, Satan has misled some Christians into thinking that they can presume on God’s mercy and commit sins with impunity.
But while Jehovah is willing to forgive repentant sinners, he expects us to put up a strong fight against our sinful tendencies.
The Mosaic Law acted as a protective wall against the degraded moral and religious acts of other nations.
When Israel listened to God, the nation received his blessing.
When they ignored him, they suffered dire consequences.
Directions were needed for another reason.
The Law pointed to an important development as to Jehovah’s will.
That was the coming of the Messiah, Jesus Christ.
The Law made it clear as never before that the Israelites were imperfect.
It also impressed on them the need for a ransom, a perfect sacrifice that would fully cover sin.
Furthermore, the Law helped to preserve the genealogical line leading to the Messiah and to identify him when he appeared.
Yes, the Law acted as a temporary tutor, or guardian, leading to Christ.
Deeds of godly devotion include your activities in the congregation, such as your meeting attendance and participation in the ministry.
Also included are spiritual activities that others do not see, such as your private prayers and your personal study.
A person who has dedicated his life to Jehovah will not consider these deeds to be chores.
Rather, he will reflect the attitude of King David, who said: To do your will, O my God, is my delight, and your law is deep within me.
Remember, as a dedicated and baptized Christian, you will stand before Jehovah on your own.
Your service to him should not depend on others—not even your parents.
Your holy acts of conduct and deeds of godly devotion give evidence that you have made the truth your own and that you are progressing toward baptism.
We need to follow the Bible-based direction we receive from the elders.
Recall Paul’s counsel regarding disorderly ones in the congregation.
Some individuals were meddling with what did not concern them.
They were evidently admonished by the elders but persisted in disregarding the counsel.
How was the congregation to deal with such a person?
Paul directed: Keep this one marked and stop associating with him.
That counsel was balanced with the caution not to treat such a person as an enemy.
Today, elders may give a warning talk about someone’s persisting in a course that reflects badly on the congregation, such as dating an unbeliever.
How do you react to their counsel?
If you are aware of the situation described in the talk, will you take care to avoid socializing with such an individual?
Your loving concern and firm stand may move the person to abandon a disorderly course.
Immigrants face the challenge of adjusting to the culture of the new country.
Ruth set a fine example in this regard.
First, she showed respect for the customs of her new country by asking permission to glean.
She did not take this right for granted as if others owed her something.
Second, she readily expressed gratitude for the kindnesses shown to her.
When immigrants display such a fine attitude, they are more likely to gain the respect of local residents and fellow believers.
We rejoice that Jehovah in his undeserved kindness has allowed people from all backgrounds to hear the good news.
In their home country, they may not have been able to take advantage of a Bible study or to associate freely with Jehovah’s people.
But now that they have the opportunity to associate with us, should we not help them so that they no longer feel like strangers in our midst?
Millions of modern-day worshippers of God are following the example of Jesus by keeping their hope in clear focus and not allowing trials to weaken their faith.
Consider the example of Rudolf Graichen, who was born in Germany in 1925.
He recalled pictures of Bible scenes that hung on the walls of his home.
One picture, he wrote, showed the wolf and the lamb, the kid and the leopard, the calf and the lion—all in peace, being led by a little boy.
Such pictures made a lasting impression on me.
Despite many years of cruel persecution, first by the Nazi Gestapo and later by the Communist Stasi of East Germany, Rudolf maintained his strong faith in an earthly paradise.
Other severe trials faced by Rudolf were the loss of his beloved mother, who died of typhus in the Ravensbrück concentration camp, and seeing his father weaken in faith and renounce being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
God’s people work hard to apply the Bible’s admonition: Deaden, therefore, your body members that are on the earth as respects sexual immorality, uncleanness, uncontrolled sexual passion.
We would not want to make it difficult for fellow believers to heed that counsel.
Brothers and sisters who have given up a sexually loose lifestyle may still be fighting sinful leanings.
We would not want to make their fight harder, would we?
When we are around our spiritual brothers and sisters, our manner of dress should help to make the congregation a haven of moral chastity.
We have the freedom to choose what to wear.
Still, all of us have a responsibility to wear clothes that make it easier for others to remain chaste and to maintain God’s standards of holiness in thought, word, and conduct.
This arrangement does not make a wife inferior to her husband.
It actually helps her to fulfill the role God had in mind for a wife when he said: It is not good for the man Adam to continue to be alone.
I am going to make a helper for him, as a complement of him.
Just as Christ, the head of the congregation, displays love, a Christian husband is to exercise loving headship.
When he does so, his wife feels secure and finds satisfaction in being respectful, supportive, and submissive.
Imitating Jesus example requires that his followers love one another just as he loved them.
Marital love shown by Christians should therefore be so strong that either mate would be willing, if necessary, to die for the other.
Many people pray because it makes them feel good, but they do not really believe that God hears their prayers.
They need to know that Jehovah is the Hearer of prayer.
Jesus told his disciples: If you ask anything in my name, I will do it.
Obviously, anything means anything that is in harmony with Jehovah’s will.
John assures us: This is the confidence that we have toward him, that no matter what we ask according to his will, he hears us.
How good it is to teach others that far from being a mere psychological crutch, prayer is a wonderful means of approaching Jehovah’s throne of undeserved kindness! By teaching them to pray in the right way, to the right Person, and for the right things, we can help them draw close to Jehovah and find comfort during times of distress.
Those words surely express the sentiments of all loyal Witnesses of Jehovah.
But what if illness or advanced age somewhat limits your ministry?
Always remember that as you share the good news with caregivers and others, your sacred service glorifies our wonderful God.
If you are imprisoned because of your faith, you likely speak about the truth as circumstances permit, and that makes Jehovah’s heart rejoice.
The same is true if you are in a religiously divided household but stick to your spiritual routine.
Even under adverse circumstances, you can praise Jehovah and make spiritual progress.
Jehovah will certainly bless you as you share God’s precious truth with those who are in need of hope.
Jehovah’s servants highly esteem God’s own holy book, the Bible.
Being imperfect, we all receive Scriptural counsel at times.
How will we respond to it?
Consider the first-century Christians Euodia and Syntyche.
Serious problems arose between these anointed women.
The problems that existed between Euodia and Syntyche could have disrupted the peace of the whole congregation.
The Bible does not tell us the outcome, but these sisters may have responded well to the apostle Paul’s loving counsel.
Similar situations sometimes cause difficulties in congregations of Jehovah’s people today.
However, such problems can be solved or even avoided if we apply the counsel found in God’s Word, the Bible.
And if we highly esteem Jehovah’s own Book, we will live by its instructions.
All of us need encouragement.
That is especially true when we are growing up.
Children need encouragement like plants need water, explains educator Timothy Evans.
With encouragement, a child feels worthwhile and appreciated.
But we live in critical times.
People are selfish, there is little natural affection, and encouragement is scarce.
Satan the Devil wants to discourage us because he knows that discouragement can make us weak spiritually and in other ways.
Satan used a combination of calamities and accusations in an effort to discourage righteous Job, but that cruel scheme failed.
We can fight the works of the Devil by encouraging members of our family and of the congregation.
This will help to make our home and the Kingdom Hall places where we feel happy and secure.
Jehovah’s great love has been displayed in many ways.
For example, note the magnificence of the universe.
There are billions of galaxies, each containing many billions of stars and planets.
In our own Milky Way galaxy, one of those stars is our sun, without which the multitude of life forms on earth would not exist.
All these creations give evidence of Jehovah’s Godship and of his qualities, such as his power, wisdom, and love.
On earth, Jehovah created everything for the benefit of his creatures designed for earthly life.
For humans, he made a beautiful paradise garden and gave them perfect minds and bodies capable of living forever.
Moreover, he gives food to every living thing, for his loyal love endures forever.
Over the years our King has given us tools to use to help prepare the hearts of millions to receive the Kingdom message.
Some tools were useful for perhaps a decade or so, while others have proved to be of timeless value.
But all these tools have allowed us to develop our skills as evangelizers in some way.
One tool that helped many get started in the ministry was the testimony card, which Kingdom publishers began using in 1933.
The card contained a brief Bible message.
The testimony card was helpful in more ways than one.
Although having a strong desire to share in the preaching work, some publishers were shy and did not know what to say.
Others would tell the householder everything they knew in just a few minutes, but their presentation was not always tactful! In contrast, in a few concise, well-chosen words, the testimony card did the talking for the publisher.
Today, we are blessed with much knowledge of Jehovah’s works of creation and the outworking of his purpose.
The world promotes higher education and advanced learning.
Yet, the experience of many shows that pursuing such things often leads to loss of faith and loss of love for God.
The Bible, however, urges us not only to love knowledge but also to acquire wisdom and understanding.
That means to learn how to use the knowledge that God has given us so that we can benefit ourselves and others.
God’s will is that all sorts of people should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
We demonstrate our love for Jehovah when we put our heart into telling everyone the Kingdom good news and helping people to understand God’s grand purpose for mankind.
Man’s linguistic abilities are a miraculous gift designed by God.
Our God-given brain is unique in another important respect.
Unlike animals, humans were created in God’s image.
They have free will and can choose to use their linguistic skills to glorify God.
To all who desire to honor the Creator of language, God has given a wonderful gift, the Bible.
It is available in whole or in part in over 2,800 languages.
When you absorb these holy writings, you are filling your mind with the thoughts of God.
Thus you can enjoy meditating on things that are able to make you wise for salvation.
To meditate means to focus your thoughts and to reflect on or ponder over something, be it good or bad.
The two best subjects for meditation are Jehovah God and his Son, Jesus Christ.
By word and example, Jesus trained his disciples to serve others humbly.
He taught his apostles to be self-sacrificing in Jehovah’s service and in dealing with fellow believers.
Through your example of humble self-sacrifice, you can teach your children the same lesson.
I never felt jealous because of the time my husband spent with others as an elder, says Debbie, a mother of two.
I knew that whenever our family needed my husband’s attention, he would give it to us.
Her husband, Pranas, adds: Later, our children were keen to be involved at assemblies and on theocratic projects.
They flourished, made friends, and felt that they belonged! The entire family now serves Jehovah in the full-time ministry.
By the way you demonstrate humility and self-sacrifice, your children are likely to learn how to serve others.
In recent years, we have seen an increase in the number of those partaking at the Memorial of Christ’s death.
That trend contrasts with the decrease in the number of partakers that we saw for many decades.
Should this increase trouble us?
No.
Let us consider some key factors to keep in mind.
Those taking the count at the Memorial cannot judge who truly have the heavenly hope.
The number of partakers includes those who mistakenly think that they are anointed.
Some who at one point started to partake of the emblems later stopped.
Others may have mental or emotional problems that lead them to believe that they will rule with Christ in heaven.
Therefore, the number of partakers does not accurately indicate the number of anointed ones left on earth.
And the Bible does not state how many will be left at the time that the great tribulation begins.
In choosing close friends, Jesus was selective.
Jesus chose such friends from among those who loyally followed him and served Jehovah wholeheartedly.
Do you similarly select your close friends from among those who serve Jehovah unreservedly?
Why is this important?
The warmth of our brotherhood can help you to progress to maturity.
Perhaps you are a young person who is trying to decide what course you will pursue in life.
How wise you are if you associate with fellow believers who have considerable experience in serving Jehovah and in contributing to the unity of the congregation! Over the years, they may have had some ups and downs in life and may even have faced challenges in serving God.
Such ones can help you to choose the best way of life.
Warm, upbuilding association with such brothers and sisters can help you to make your own wise decisions and to press on to maturity.
By both word and deed, Jesus built up the faith of his disciples.
We should follow his example because helping others build up their faith also strengthens our own.
In your preaching and teaching, highlight the proof that God exists, that he cares about us, and that the Bible is his inspired Word.
Help your brothers and sisters bolster their faith as well.
If any show signs of doubt, perhaps by starting to grumble against appointed brothers, do not quickly shun them.
Instead, tactfully come to their aid, helping them take steps to restore their faith.
If you are in school and the theory of evolution is discussed, boldly defend your faith in creation—you might be surprised at the effect your words have on others.
Jehovah helps all of us to stand firm in the faith.
The effort we put into building our faith is well worth it, for the rewards of faith are incomparable.
Samuel was so reluctant to do what the people demanded that Jehovah three times saw the need to tell him to listen to them.
Even so, Samuel did not allow bitterness or resentment against the man who would replace him to take root in his heart.
When Jehovah told him to anoint Saul, the prophet obeyed, not reluctantly out of mere duty, but willingly out of love.
Like Samuel, experienced elders today show a kind disposition toward those whom they train.
Such elders do not hold back from training others for fear of having to relinquish certain congregation privileges to the learners.
Bighearted teachers view willing learners, not as competitors, but as fellow workers—as precious gifts to the congregation.
And what satisfaction such unselfish teachers experience as they observe how the learners use their abilities to benefit the congregation!—.
As King of God’s Kingdom, Jesus will crush the serpent’s head and erase from the universe all traces of Satan’s rebellion.
While on earth, Jesus helped his disciples to see the importance of God’s Kingdom.
Immediately after his baptism, Jesus proclaimed the good news of the Kingdom of God far and wide.
In his last words to his disciples before he returned to heaven, Jesus instructed them to be witnesses of him to the most distant part of the earth.
By means of the Kingdom-preaching work, people throughout the earth would have an opportunity to learn about the ransom and become subjects of God’s Kingdom.
Today, we show our support for the Kingdom by assisting Christ’s brothers on earth in carrying out the commission to preach the good news of the Kingdom worldwide.
Meditating on spiritual things will help a person grow to Christian maturity.
A person who spends little time thinking about Jehovah and Jesus will not maintain strong faith.
Such a person is in danger of drifting away or drawing away from the truth.
Jesus warned that if we do not hear, or accept, God’s Word with a fine and good heart, we will not retain it.
Instead, we could easily be carried away by anxieties, riches, and pleasures of this life, and bring nothing to maturity.
Therefore, let us continue to ponder over God’s Word.
This will motivate us to reflect Jehovah’s glory, qualities, and personality as revealed in the Bible.
What more could we ask for?
Growing in the knowledge of God and being allowed to reflect his glory are wonderful privileges, a never-ending process as we continue to learn how to imitate our loving heavenly Father.
We must never doubt that if we follow God’s direction, it will turn out for our good.
It is vital that we put faith in the One who can really help.
Paul reminds us that God is the one who can, according to his power that is operating in us, do more than superabundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive.
Jehovah’s servants do all they can to carry out the will of God, but knowing their limitations, they trust in Jehovah to bless the outcome.
Are we not glad that our God is with us?
Can we expect our requests for more faith to be answered?
The Bible assures us that we can when we ask according to God’s will.
Clearly, Jehovah is pleased with those who put their complete trust in him.
Jehovah will answer our request for more faith, and our faith will grow exceedingly, leading to our being counted worthy of the Kingdom of God.
Speech is part of our daily life, but we do not need to talk all the time.
In fact, the Bible says that there is a time to be silent.
Maintaining silence when others are speaking can be a mark of respect.
Controlling our tongue to keep quiet about a confidential matter gives evidence of discretion and discernment.
Restraining our tongue when we are provoked is the course of wisdom.
On the other hand, the Bible also says that there is a time to speak.
If a friend gave you a beautiful present, you would probably not store it out of sight.
Rather, you would show your appreciation by putting it to good use.
We show our gratitude for Jehovah’s gift of speech by using it wisely.
That might include expressing our feelings, communicating our needs, sharing words of encouragement, and giving God praise.
As Christianity spread, much communication among Christians was in Greek.
In fact, the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, which contain inspired records of what Jesus taught and did, were widely distributed in Greek.
Thus, the language of many disciples was Greek rather than Hebrew.
The letters of the apostle Paul and the other inspired books were also distributed in Greek.
It is noteworthy that when writers of the Christian Greek Scriptures quoted from the Hebrew Scriptures, they usually did so from the Septuagint.
These quotations, which at times vary somewhat from the exact Hebrew wording, are now part of the inspired Scriptures.
Thus, the work of imperfect human translators became part of the inspired Word of God, a God who does not favor one culture or language over another.
Because of the headship principle that exists throughout God’s arrangement of things, love is especially important.
But headship is not to be exercised in a domineering way.
Although a husband is the head of his wife, the Bible instructs him to assign her honor.
One way husbands can honor their wives is by taking into consideration their needs and giving them first choice in some matters.
Indeed, God’s Word states: Husbands, continue loving your wives, just as the Christ also loved the congregation and gave himself up for it.
Yes, Jesus even gave his life for his followers.
When a husband imitates the loving way in which Jesus exercises headship, it is much easier for a wife to love and respect him and be in subjection to him.
As parents, you want your teenage children to remain spiritually healthy.
And God wants you to bring your children up in the discipline and admonition of Jehovah.
So use your God-given responsibility to establish and maintain a spiritual routine.
To illustrate: You insist that your children be educated because their education is important and you hope to instill in them a love for learning.
Loving parents likewise insist that their children benefit from the admonition of Jehovah at congregation meetings and through other spiritual programs.
Because divine education is vital, you try to instill in your children love for spiritual things and appreciation for wisdom.
As Jesus helped his disciples, you seek to help your teenage children to succeed in the ministry by developing in them a love of teaching God’s Word and by helping them stick to a good field service routine.
Those who study ancient Hebrew Bible manuscripts, such as the Dead Sea Scrolls, are struck by the many occurrences of the Tetragrammaton—the four Hebrew letters that represent God’s name.
The divine name appears not only in those ancient Hebrew manuscripts but also in some copies of the Greek Septuagint from the second century B.
through the first century  Despite the clear evidence that the personal name of God belongs in the Bible, many translations completely omit the sacred name of God.
In 1952, the Revised Standard Version was published.
That version omitted the name, reversing the policy of the editors of the American Standard Version of 1901.
Why?
The preface says: The use of any proper name for the one and only God is entirely inappropriate for the universal faith of the Christian Church.
That set a pattern for many subsequent translations, English and non-English.
Because of inherited sin, we are all facing the death penalty.
Lovingly, Jehovah arranged for Jesus to come to the earth and taste death for everyone.
Not only did Jehovah save our present life but he laid the basis for wiping out the cause of death forever.
All who exercise faith in Jesus will receive everlasting life in peace and happiness as earthly subjects of God’s Kingdom by Christ or, for the anointed, as corulers in that Kingdom.
What other blessings are included in this gift from Jehovah?
Jehovah’s gift includes the curing of all our sicknesses, the transformation of our earth into a paradise, and the resurrection of the dead.
We surely love Jehovah and his dear Son for giving us what is an indescribable free gift.
We do not live at a time when a fellow Christian can use gifts of healing to cure us.
But some well-intentioned brothers give unsolicited health recommendations.
Granted, someone might simply offer general, practical suggestions.
Paul did so when Timothy was experiencing stomach problems, perhaps because the local water was polluted.
That, however, is quite different from trying to persuade a fellow Witness to use some herb, remedy, or diet that may not be effective or in some cases may even be harmful.
At times, some have tried to persuade others with an explanation: My relative had a similar disease, and he took Then he got well.
No matter how sincere the suggestion, we do well to keep in mind that there may be risks even with widely used medications and treatments.
As Christians, we can benefit from the guidelines that were given in the Law to the nation of Israel.
How so?
We can stop and look at the underlying principles of the Law.
Even though we are not under those laws, we can view many of them as trustworthy guides in our daily lives and our worship of our holy God, Jehovah.
He had those laws recorded in the Bible so that we could learn from them, be guided by the principles, and appreciate the higher moral standards for Christians.
Listen to what Jesus said: You heard that it was said: You must not commit adultery.
But I say to you that everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Thus, we need to avoid not only the act of adultery but also the sexual craving to share in immorality.
Jesus promised that our Father in heaven will not fail to give holy spirit to those asking Him.
The fruitage of the spirit, positive qualities that are produced by God’s active force, reflects the very personality of the almighty God.
As you cultivate the fruitage of that spirit, your relationship with others will improve.
Thus, you will find that many situations that could otherwise cause anxiety do not arise.
Admittedly, you will need humility to yield to the mighty hand of God and to throw all your anxiety on him.
But as you cultivate humility, you will be on a path that results in God’s favor and support.
By maintaining a realistic estimate of your physical, mental, and emotional abilities, you will be less likely to become overwhelmed by anxiety, for you will be relying on God.
Accounts of Joseph, Moses, and David are among the most detailed and vivid of all Bible characters.
Reading about how Jehovah was with them throughout their trials and how they came to be used mightily by Jehovah makes us feel all the more Jehovah’s care and love for his servants.
Discipline from Jehovah helps us see another aspect of his love.
When those who have done wrong are disciplined by Jehovah and they respond and repent, he will forgive in a large way.
What does that mean?
David gave a touching description of Jehovah’s forgiveness in these words: He forgives all your errors and heals all your ailments; he reclaims your life from the pit and crowns you with his loyal love and mercy.
May we always be sensitive to Jehovah’s counsel, even his discipline, and be quick to respond, recognizing that it is an expression of his boundless love for us.
We are all born imperfect.
So at times some in the congregation may hurt us by what they say or do.
This can test our love for Jehovah and for his people.
What will we do on such occasions?
For example, High Priest Eli had two sons who did not uphold Jehovah’s laws.
We read: The sons of Eli were wicked men; they had no regard for Jehovah.
Though their father played a key role in promoting true worship, his two sons committed very serious sins.
Eli knew about this and should have disciplined them, but he was lax in that regard.
As a result, God adversely judged the household of Eli.
In time, his descendants would not be allowed to serve as high priests.
Had you lived in Eli’s day, how would you have reacted to Eli’s toleration of the sins committed by his sons? Would you have let it stumble you to the point that you would no longer serve God?
At Jehovah’s direction, the Israelites built the tabernacle.
Later, they constructed a temple for the worship of Jehovah.
After returning from exile in Babylon, the Jews regularly gathered in synagogues.
Early Christians met in the homes of members of the congregation.
Today, Jehovah’s people meet for education and worship in tens of thousands of Kingdom Halls worldwide.
So great was Jesus love and appreciation for Jehovah’s temple in Jerusalem that a Gospel writer attributed to him the prophetic sentiment found in today’s text.
No Kingdom Hall can rightly be called the house of Jehovah in the same sense that these words applied to the temple in Jerusalem.
Even so, the Bible contains principles that show us how our modern-day places of worship should be used and respected.
Will we be able to deal lovingly with one another during Christ’s Thousand Year Reign?
If we learn to forgive freely and if we avoid strained relations now, it will be easier for us to do so then.
Life in the new world may not mean that we will always get what we want when we want it.
Instead, that life will involve being appreciative and content in any situation as we benefit from submitting to Jehovah’s loving sovereignty.
It will mean putting into practice the very qualities that Jehovah is teaching us to cultivate now.
By learning to live now as we expect to live then, we are developing qualities that we will need to manifest for all eternity.
We are strengthening our faith in the reality of the inhabited earth to come.
Moreover, we are showing how deeply we yearn for the righteous conditions that will then exist on earth.
Indeed, we are preparing for everlasting life in God’s new world.
When you examine ripe fruit at the market, you see that not all the pieces are identical.
Yet, they do share some characteristics that identify them as being ripe.
Similarly, mature Christians may be of different nationality, background, health, age, and experience.
There are even differences in personality or culture.
Still, all who grow spiritually develop qualities that identify them as being mature.
How so?
A mature servant of Jehovah builds his life around the example of Jesus, who left a model for us to follow his steps closely.
What did Jesus highlight as being very important?
Loving Jehovah with all one’s heart, soul, and mind, and loving one’s neighbor as oneself.
A mature Christian strives to live in harmony with that counsel.
He has established a life pattern that shows that he gives priority to his relationship with Jehovah and he displays self-sacrificing love for others.
Before Jesus ascended to heaven, his apostles asked the above.
Jesus answer showed that it was not the time for them to know when God’s Kingdom would start ruling.
He told his disciples to focus on the important witnessing work that they needed to do.
Nevertheless, Jesus taught his followers to look forward to the coming of God’s Kingdom.
So Christians since the days of the apostles have been praying for it to come.
When the time approached for God’s Kingdom in the hands of Jesus to start ruling from heaven, Jehovah helped his people to understand the timing of events.
In 1876, an article written by Charles Taze Russell was published in the magazine Bible Examiner.
That article, Gentile Times: When Do They End?
, pointed to 1914 as a significant year.
The article linked the seven times of Daniel’s prophecy with the appointed times of the nations spoken of by Jesus.
Jehovah’s worshippers have long lived in expectation of the fulfillment of inspired prophecies.
Isaiah, who foretold that Jehovah would bring about a restoration after Judah’s desolation, declared: Happy are all those keeping in expectation of him.
Micah, whose prophecies also involved God’s ancient people, personally resolved: I will keep on the lookout for Jehovah.
For centuries, God’s servants also lived in expectation of the fulfillment of prophecies concerning the Messiah, or Christ.
God’s present-day servants also keep in expectation, for prophecies about the Messiah are still undergoing fulfillment.
Through the Messianic Kingdom, Jehovah will soon put an end to human suffering by destroying the wicked and delivering his people from this unstable world lying in Satan’s power.
Let us therefore remain alert and fully aware that this system is rapidly nearing its end.
Sharing the good news with others can help us to cultivate humility and various aspects of the fruitage of God’s spirit.
What is more, as we display the Christlike personality, we adorn our message, which may affect the attitude of some householders.
For example, two Witnesses in Australia listened respectfully to a householder who spoke very unkindly to them.
Later, however, she regretted her manner and wrote to the branch office.
In part, she said: To those two very patient and humble individuals, I would like to convey my apology for my most self-righteous and condescending behaviour.
I am a fool to stand before two people spreading God’s Word and attempt to steer them away like that.
Would the householder have written that if the publishers had shown even a hint of anger?
Probably not.
Yes, how beneficial our ministry is—both for ourselves and for our neighbors!
That was timely counsel coupled with positive direction.
Jehovah thus warned Cain when it was apparent that Cain was on a very dangerous course.
Sadly, Cain did not heed that warning, and he suffered for it.
When Jeremiah’s secretary, Baruch, felt weary and despondent, Jehovah gave him counsel to help him see the reality of his problem.
Unlike Cain, Baruch accepted Jehovah’s counsel, and this preserved his life.
Those whom Jehovah loves he disciplines, in fact, he scourges everyone whom he receives as a son, wrote Paul.
Discipline, however, is not limited to punishment.
It takes various forms.
There are many examples in the Bible of faithful servants undergoing extreme trials that may have involved discipline and that trained them.
Many have concluded that a measure of regular exercise promotes good health and refreshes the body and mind.
If we want to enjoy exercise in a group, should we share in it with just anyone?
tells us: The one walking with the wise will become wise, but the one who has dealings with the stupid will fare badly.
Does this not suggest that we should be selective in our choice of recreation, guided by our Bible-trained conscience?
There is also the question of when to engage in recreation.
Do you plan recreation around theocratic activities, such as meetings, field ministry, and personal study?
Or do you find yourself trying to fit theocratic activities between periods of leisure?
What are your priorities?
Jesus said: Keep on, then, seeking first the Kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added to you.
Does your conscience prompt you to set priorities that line up with Jesus advice?
What a privilege it is for us not only to know God’s personal name but also to bear it as a people for his name.
We implore our heavenly Father: Let your name be sanctified.
Your making such a request may move you to ask Jehovah to help you to avoid doing or saying anything that would dishonor his holy name.
We do not want to be like some in the first century who did not practice what they preached, as mentioned in today’s text.
What is needed for God’s name to be completely sanctified and cleared of all reproach?
For that to happen, Jehovah must act to remove all who willfully reject his sovereignty.
Mankind will gradually be brought to perfection.
How we long for the time when all intelligent creation will treat Jehovah’s name as holy! Then, at last, our loving heavenly Father will be all things to everyone.
Realizing that it was his Father, Jehovah, who had healed the woman, Jesus treated her kindly, saying: Daughter, your faith has made you well.
Go in peace, and be healed from your grievous sickness.
How kind Jesus is! We see that he has a warm place in his heart for those who suffer from illnesses.
Satan wants to convince us that we are unloved and worthless.
By his miracles, Jesus clearly proved that he truly cares about us and our problems.
What a sympathetic King and High Priest! It may not be easy for us to understand the feelings of those who suffer from a chronic illness, especially if we have never experienced such.
We can bear in mind that Jesus empathized with the sick even though he himself was never sick.
May Jesus example move us to do the same, to the best of our ability.
This will be a time for rewarding those who are faithful and for punishing those who are not.
According to Matthew, Jesus finished giving the composite sign with the parable of the sheep and the goats, saying: When the Son of man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit down on his glorious throne.
All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
And he will put the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left.
What judgment will the sheep and the goats hear pronounced on them?
The parable finishes with the words: These the goats will depart into everlasting cutting-off, but the righteous ones into everlasting life.
There are many ways to express our love for Jehovah.
For example, we show love for God and neighbor by having a zealous share in the Kingdom-preaching work.
We show that we truly love Jehovah by enduring tests of faith as integrity keepers.
If our trials become severe, we can be sure that God is aware of our suffering and will help us, for we are precious to him.
Our love for Jehovah moves us to meditate on his creative works and other marvelous deeds.
We show that we love God and highly value his Word by diligently studying the Bible.
Love for Jehovah draws us ever closer to him in prayer.
And our love for God grows deeper as we reflect on the ransom sacrifice he provided for our sins.
These are just some of the many reasons we have for loving Jehovah in response to his enduring love for us.
It is understandable that we might feel some affection for the land, the culture, the language, and the food of the country we were raised in.
However, we must avoid the mine is best attitude.
For our pleasure, Jehovah has created great variety in all things.
So why insist that one way of doing things is superior to another?
God wants people of all sorts to come to an accurate knowledge of truth and to enjoy everlasting life.
Open-mindedness toward a diversity of acceptable ideas enriches us and protects our Christian unity.
As we maintain our loyalty to Jehovah, we must avoid involvement in the world’s controversies.
Partisan allegiances have no place among us.
How thankful we are to Jehovah for freeing us from the divisive, prideful, competitive practices that dominate Satan’s world!
The apostle Paul wrote of the need for Christians in Ephesus to grow spiritually.
He encouraged them to reach out to attain to the oneness of the faith and of the accurate knowledge of the Son of God, to being a full-grown man, attaining the measure of stature that belongs to the fullness of the Christ.
When Paul wrote his letter, the congregation in Ephesus had already existed for some years.
Many disciples there had reached a high level of spiritual development.
Some, however, still needed to press on to maturity.
The situation among Jehovah’s Witnesses today is much the same.
Many brothers and sisters have long served God and have advanced to spiritual maturity.
But obviously not all are at that point.
For example, thousands of new ones are baptized each year, so some still need to strive for maturity.
What about you?
