Prime Minister Meles said, "War is not a Soccer Game!"
Recently, it is often heard that the main stick of criticism rested upon Prime Minister Meles during the TPLF/EPRDF evaluation session.
Meanwhile, it's widely heard that Prime Minister's private guards were changed by others, direct telephone lines to the Prime Minister were disconnected in the palace, and one can discuss about anything related to the present condition with the office of Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
It's in the midst of this situation that Ato Meles gave an interview to voice of America.
During the interview there was a different position about Eritrean question among the TPLF leaders.
Due to the special favor the moderate and the conservatives gave to Eritrean government there was a great difference, it was said.
Responding to whether there was a significant difference between bodies of TPIF EPRDF with regards to the special relationship (special favor) Eritrean government receives he denied that there has been no difference in both TPLF as well as EPRDF,  and will never be, and more or less ruled out the issue of evaluation.
Asked about his relationship with president Isayas Afeworkihe responded "...even though there were times when I observe unlikable behavior ... I have never thought he would take a decision merely made out of a game of chance with issues that affect the chances and benefit of people.
Actually, signs of obstinacy can't be said to have come yesterday.
They were there long ago."
And with regards to opposition parties, he answered, "At the time when measures are taken against the sovereignty of Ethiopia, her peoples' rights and benefits, every one cooperatively works in defense, and this was a common practice and it should be.
Our political difference cannot be resolved in a day's time.
One of the characteristics of democracy is the interplay of various kinds of positions."
And with regards to the present situation, he stated that war is not a soccer game, "we are not going to take part in such a game as ‘this one scored a goal before, so you, too, should score' kind-of-game."
we won't participate in such a game.
He said.
When he responded to the last question, what lesson did your government learn from this situation?
"He said" although it is known that there's a concealed arrogance and conceit in Eritrea, never have we expected that he would gamble on Eritrean people.
I never expected this arrogance and conceit would reach as far as this level.
What I have learnt now is that the scope of arrogance and conceit of Eritrean leadership could be revealed in terms of gambling with people's benefit.This we saw.
From now on, it is something we will always remember that there are not only conceited individuals behind us, but also individuals who gamble on people's benefit," concluded his speech.
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
Message of Fiamet.
Dogs that Bark wherever they eat!
Although it is EPLF's demagoguery the cause for today's civil war, the reason for entertaining such bold arrogance on us, in one way or another, is undoubtedly the present administrator..
After Eritrea got "freedom" all the necessary measures were being taken to secede her people from Ethiopia..
After the referendum the Ethiopian government journalists were heard beating the ceremonial drum of secession.
Nobody for gets Ethiopian radio and TV have played mouthpieces of Eritrean leaders, broadcasting their deafening propaganda..
Leaving other issues, they preached us as if nothing happened to our fellow people when they were appropriated and evicted from Eritrea..
Individuals like "professor" Indrias Eshete gave press statement on radio and TV, saying not even one Ethiopian have been harmed by EPLF..
Similar propaganda was broadcasted in the following years..
When the security members of EPLF penetrated through Addis kidnapping who ever they want, dong what ever things they need, let alone government journalists, even officials deliberately closed their eyes, and gave their deaf ears..
But today is a different day..
The EPLF government apart from its boastful insults..
We never have doubted that all these came as a result of the encouragement we ourselves rendered..
Free press journalists who wrote are to this date under the legal process..
On the other hand, those government journalists who used to praise EPLF, giving their backs to the people and doing wrong to the people are to this date living comfortably..
Although these opportunists who played the role of a betrayer have not seen the power of the law, they have conscience and should learn from their past evil deeds..
It's mandatory we remind them what Mr. Meles Zenawi said at the outset for the journalists not to be opportunistic and boot lickers..
We also give them our Ethiopian and professional advice saying that they should not be pointer dogs that bark wherever they eat.
OK what's by gone is bygone, but from now on it's necessary to think like human..
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
A Top Diplomat Deserte.
A top diplomat at the Ethiopian Embassy in Rome, Dr. Bekele, deserted.
Dr. Bekele's desertion was heard yesterday on the voice of EPRP.
The desertion of the diplomat didn't leave good feeling around the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, close sources indicated.
The doctor was head of the economic cooperation.
Italy gives a lot of aid to Ethiopia, and the doctor's desertion with many secrets may or may not put this aid in danger, it's not known.
Nonetheless, there are officials in the ministry of Foreign Affairs who are very much concerned about it, close sources disclosed to us.
In an interview he gave to Finote Democracy, EPRP's voice, he said, "In fact, I have served for 8 years; I couldn't simply accept what TPLF is doing especially the administrative injustice done on Southern people, and I have expressed my opposition may times in diplomatic meeting and in any other occasions.
I have never declined from stating that the constitution has been violated.
I expressed that some situations should be improved.
Regarding this, some EPRDF spies in the embassy reported to the ministry of Foreign Affairs; as a result, some punishments and threatening befell him..
Finally, I was ordered to withdraw my work and report by going to my country.
The situation as it is now would not only be risky for my security, but also I'm worried that I may not be able to contribute my share in the ongoing peaceful struggle for democracy and justified administration.
Here in a foreign land, I could, without any worry, contribute my share in the struggle to bring abut a better regime and to enable it come soon but now I have been obliged to distance my self from the diplomatic work I very much like.
Mr. Meles' government couldn't keep the promise it made to Ethiopian people even after 10 years.
The peace and stability, democracy and development that were talked over by EPRDF for the last 10 years have only remained to be a clamor of words.
The constitution which EPRDF gave to the people by itself has created a problem to it.       .
The individual and people's rights that are written in the constitution have become futile..
As the 1995 constitution has many articles that give precedence for the benefit of the ruling groups, I think struggling or its correct interpretation is the right strategy for struggle and the direction for struggle.
As I am a national from Southern people, I would be willing to contribute my share in the struggle in this direction".
He said.
From Satenow January 21, 2002.
"Sheraton Addis" opens next Saturday!
It was disclosed that Sheraton Hotel which is given high prestige all over the world would ceremoniously be opened next Saturday on March 1, 1998 in Ethiopia, Addis Ababa after its successful completion of its buildings.
In relation to this, "The Addis Forum", a body that is making an effort to draw great business people to Africa, would make discussion in this hotel on March 9 and 10, it was disclosed.
In this discussion, Meles Zenawi, Yoweri Miusevini of Uganda and Joseph Willson from White House would be Present.
Fiameta February 25, 1998
Jiji was Praised in Several Mass Media
The new album of Jiji got good market, BBC indicated, while the New York Times newspaper on its part said that the album was not sold as it deserved and categorized it in the first place under those who did a good album but didn't get their proper place.
BBC which disclosed that world class very popular trumpet and saxophone players including Herbe Hankok participate in Jiji's new album, and said that there were suggestions that Jiji's music excels those which have been done for years by Ethiopians.
BBC pointed out that Jiji's album have got good sale, and said Jiji was satisfied by the sale of her album.
The New York Times on its part said the sale of the album wasn't up to the standard of the music.
The New York Times which stated that each year more than 20 thousand albums are produced, and due to its enormity, some music remained without getting as many listeners as they deserve, it said.
The paper's analysts of pop and jazz music listen the number of albums produced in 2001 who didn't get as much sale as they deserve, and mentioned Jiji under number one.
In the suggestions the analysts wrote about the album, they praised the tunes of the music, Jiji's voice and the musical rhythm.
On the other hand, many articles written by many American journalists and magazines praising Jiji are coming out, widening her popularity, and by now she's showing concert going round the entire country, hence, the coming three months are occupied by programs, it was disclosed.   .
The following are among the mass media who wrote about Jiji.
"With one inner feeling – ten beats, Jiji has now excelled the very marvelous great new African singers"
Afro Pop World wide  "Although you don't understand the poems of the music, you can well comprehend the feeling..."
"She's beautiful!!"
The Herban Network
"Jiji sometimes with a voice that steals feeling in a mysterious force and in an uneasy one, at another time with a charismatic strongly audible voice, but always in a voice that flows freely crystal clear, she firmly holds (grips) your feeling."
Rythm
"Jiji's pacific advanced mezzo-soprano voices easily go to and fro between a flirting girl's voice and that of a wonan's pride, a symbol of an instrument of beauty."
CD Now
From Addis Admas January 12, 2002  .
Statement Given From King Haileselassie Memorial Organizatio.
King Haileselassie Memorial Organization gave a press statement on February 24, 1998..
Following is the full text of the statement.
Some individuals thought out of the public's interest of transferring his majesty's corpse to Holy Trinity cathedral and have now and then been giving press statement about the situation..
The reason for this was being unaware of the memorial Organization's responsibility, its duties and activities as well as being oblivious of the fact that it needs a lot of time and preparation to honorably transfer the corpse, so we believe that this statement is needed to show the true picture..
Before anything else, to honorably transfer his majesty's corpse and establish the appropriate memorial statue, king Haileselassie memorial organization is give the sole responsibility.
Since His majesty king Haileselassie is the higher protector of Ethiopian patriot's association based on the question the association had put forward to the then Ethiopian Transitional Government and the latter's cooperation and effort the corpse of his majesty, after a two-day search, was cautiously taken out on February 16, 1992 from the not-so-good hiding place it was put earlier, which Ethiopian people were aware of..
As the great king's corpse was found, it was urgently making preparations to lay the corpse in Holy Trinity Cathedral, when the committee which was assigned to set up the program received a letter questioning "His majesty king Haileselassie corpse should lay honorably and in order to have enough time for the preparation, let it temporarily rest at Taeka queen Baeta Mary Monastery" form the public and since the king's family agreed on this idea, through the letter written from patriots' Association, has now been six years since His majesty's corpse laid at Taeka Queen Baeta Mary Monastery..
While the other Ethiopians who were killed and their corpse thrown else where by the ruthless Dergue regime were with the kind permission of the transitional government, gathered again and honorably put to rest safely, and, as needed, put on memorial statue, this majesty's corpse has still been found in Taeka Queen Baeta Mary Monastery where it laid temporarily, despite the then transitional government president's permission.   .
Although the contribution His majesty king Haileselassie made to Ethiopian's development in his long years of leadership would be widely explained in the future, it's known that he made continual efforts especially, to make Ethiopia's freedom and unity remain intact, to reveal her long time freedom history to the would as well as to enable the enrichment of the social living and to enable it develop educationally and knowledge wise..
When formerly the country faced hard tests from foreigners, in the battle field and later his political struggle and firm faith produced fame and appreciation for himself and appropriate pride for Ethiopia..
In the struggle conducted to bring about freedom for African Unity and peace, his majesty was the one who had registered highest results..
For the great leadership services he conducted, and the roles he played in negotiation, establishing a permanent legacy and memorial for His majesty who was a great leader and father to Africa, is a holy task to be done by the owner of the history, the Ethiopian people..
That's why the people, at first opposed the transfer of His majesty's corpse to Holy Trinity cathedral, with such deficient organization..
For the organization was also established accepting the people's question, all must cooperate for this good cause. .
Since His majesty's corpse hasn't honorably laid to rest up to now in its appropriate place with proper procession, not only international and famous person age who appreciate his deeds, have aired their voice of resentment, regret and complaints, but also it has become troubling to their conscience to those Ethiopians who beloved in honor of humanity, justice and fairness..
In order to be saved from historical judgment and a regret that lives forever, the corpse has to honorably transfer to a grave yard at Holy Trinity Cathedral that had already been prepared while the king was alive, and building a memorial that is appropriate to a nation's pride and a benefit for the people obviously would be the major timely deed..
The Ethiopians who were present in the first meetings in order to enable this honorable cause accomplish, after the discussion, family of the king, peoples and the Ancient Ethiopian patriots Association attending as members established "His majesty king HaileSelassie Memorial Organization" as we explained before in Tobia newspaper, March 6, 1996 edition.
We have attached the establishing document and presented it to the appropriate government office in order to have officially registered..
The established organization is led by 21 members of management committee now and under it organized seven technique committees, actively operational by now..
We hope that Ethiopians who love their country and foreigners who are friends of His majesty have the right awareness of the organization through this press statement..
The His majesty king Haileselassie Memorial Organization has no doubt would have wide financial and material support as well as constructive ideas from Ethiopia and overseas who like justice..
With regards to the public's participation, recording, contributions and about its future activities, the organization would usually give press statement, and each of the newspaper on its part is believed to publish and show the right picture..
Until nation wide branches are built after having completed registration of members we kindly request that all true and rightful friends discuss on the issues wherever they are and prepare the way the individuals who will lead the branches in the future, as well as send constructive suggestions through P.O. Box 5616 Addis Ababa..
Bitweded Zewdie Gebre Hiwot
His Majesty kind Haileselasi.
Memorial Organizatio.
Executive committee
From Fiameta February 25, 1998
"The Construction work of Kotebe Saint Gabriel Church has not been Discontinued" It was said
In accordance with the information it reached us from the area Earlier in Fiameta No. 118 March 24, 1998 it was stated that the construction work was discontinued but the deputy chairman of the preaching assembly of Kotebe saint Gabriel church, major Tadesse Seifu in report he sent to our office stated that the construction work was not discontinued..
According to the statement, although the previous report was presented in the name of priests, more than 5 thousands Christian laity of the area, have been visiting day and night, didn't stop offering help..
As to the previous report that was written in the name of he priests, the priests were asked whether this was true, by the district head of priests, and responded that they didn't write that report, the one who wrote that report are not more than 3 or 4 people who are addicted to power they unanimously denied, the report stated..
These priests wrote was far form the truths, the report..
Under the title "From nine quintals of fake one gram of truth weighs more", issued a firm denial stating that it's completely far from truth that the construction has been discontinued for a year..
Until winter came in July and August when we stayed for collecting money, the building had been under construction up to June 1997, and after the winter, the newly elected building work committee continued its work. .
It's now being under construction amazingly.
The report which stated that the construction work was discontinued because of the administrator and deputy chairman was just defamatory campaign, condemned those group who wrote the previous report..
The report also praised the deputy chairman major Tadesse stating that he has been a good Christian who has remained firm in his faith on the fleshy God..
A man who brought the building into reality, and his dedication can be proved by priests and the laity; they explained the strength of the deputy chairman..
The report that detailed its statement form 1-5 stated that there's no problem observed in the construction of the building and the rumor is just the talk of the devil, and those people who wrote fake stories are propagandists form around Arat Kilo, Merkato and Eri Bekentu areas..
Lists of people who contributed a total of "67.689.32 Birr to the church was written..
The list didn't show their names although they had contributed a lot of the church..
As to the claimed 300,000.Birr (three hundred thousand) which was said to be kept for investigation in the future...perhaps these people who condemned us, if truthful investigator is found, would have been in debt", criticized by adding that those who judge others would be judged..
From Fiameta April 29, 1998
World AIDS Campaign was Celebrated in Our Country
The 1998 World AIDS Campaign which is underway under the motto "Babies and Children who live in the would where AIDS Spreads" has been celebrated in our country with different ceremonies. .
In a ceremony held at the ministry of Health's hall, bureau head of Addis Ababa Health Office Dr. Abera Kume, spoke that the disease mostly attacks the youth who's part of the community's backbone and ‘as a result' has a negative impact..
Particularly in the region, to curb the spread of the disease, a coordination committee was formed in collaboration with different government and non-government organizations, great efforts should be made, especially to bring about a change of behavior on the youth, Dr. Abera Pointed out.
To control the spread of the disease, he pointed out that working in unison is crucial, and in the prevention in order for the community to be kept for from the disease, not only those who are involved in the health sector, but also other organizations and association, community bodies who are poplar and are listened to, others, too, should work hand in had for it is believed to have a great contribution, he pointed out. .
At this ceremony, mentioning the recent figure, in our city close to quarter a million people are infected by the disease, while 20 thousand people are caught by the disease and waiting for their death.
In addition, the death of 25% of the productive youth has been AIDS disease and, above all, out of the babies born forms the victims of the disease, 30% remained without parents.
World Health Organization Ethiopian Bureau head Dr. Mombaze Widson on his part said that especially babies who die of AIDS disease are increasing from time to time, and he said this year focus was given for babies and children who live in the world where AIDS spreads.     .
In relation to this he also reminds that African countries should give great concentration to the effort that is to be made vis-à-vis the protection of the disease..
In the ceremony celebrated for the 10th time in our country, various research papers, songs and literary papers were presented pertaining to the date, presents were given to the winners of the competition.
From Addis Zemen Dec. 2, 1998
Editorial
A Country That Needs Resurrectio.
On the morrow of TPLF/EPRDF's control over this country, it had many dreams.
Seceding Eritrea, Establishing the great empire of Tigray, suppressing the Amhara and other nationals, belittling ... condemning, making others denounce ... the honorable flag of Ethiopia, are few of them.
On top of that, they had sort of night mare-play that said, "we would be able to provide five meals for this people who only eat once day", it was Meles Zenawi ... who said this, who's not dead even today.
The individuals fulfilled few of their promises through their sacrifice.
They have Eritrea secede, divided the people, imprisoned the elite, and chased them away ... killed them; have them killed.
Without finishing having seceded Eritrea, and beating their drums, a new history is made.
The EPLF individuals whom they claim as closest turned their guns towards the TPLF indivduals..
They vowed to destroy "the great empire of Tigray" ... shot guns at them ... continued even today.
As if they didn't say, "we don't care about the piece of cloth" referring to the flag of Ethiopia, today they are obliged to fly the flag.
The nationals whom they wanted to divide and kill each other, have in an unexpected condition strengthened its unity, becoming warp and weft, stood for its county's existence, more than anyone else.
The people, whom TPLF never thought and expected of having such a nature, have proved to display their greatness.
It showed its sacrifice.
It strengthened its unity.
The creator taught them through miracles they never dreamt nor ever thought about before.  .
Yet, after all these, they are still living as they used to.
They seriously cling to their acts of chasing the elite and condemning others, having them condemned.
This country needs resurrection.
She seeks a leader and a government who honors the people.
She needs a force that acts in accordance to people's feelings and spirit.
Otherwise, we would be heading towards the twenty first century like slaves of government whose hands and mouth are fastened!!
Hey! Bravo compatriot ... if we forget what we were said, what were enacted up on us, we may have been in deep sleep, so wake up.
Next year, it's told now that an election that includes opposition forces would be conducted.
It's wise to know before hand who could work for us
We don't need someone who, would once and for all, kill the already dying country.
Instead, let's think about her resurrection!!   .
From Fiameta July 28, 1999
Arrangements Were Made for Ethiopia to Get Gasoline from Sudan, it was Disclosed
By buying eighty-five percent of the total gas supply Ethiopia needs from Sudan arrangements were made to reduce a seven-million dollar expense, Ethiopia Gas Organization disclosed.
Mr. Yegzaw Mekonnen the general manager of the organization disclosed the day before yesterday that Ethiopia imports 10 thousand metric tons per month which is 120 thousand metric tons gas per year from Sudan as of the beginning of the coming Gregorian calendar.
In addition, she would get 3 thousand metric tons per month which is 36 thousand metric tons of kerosene per year.
The manager disclosed that the gas that' found from Sudan would enable her reduce her cost by seven million dollar than her annual expense she used to disburse while buying in would market.
The supply of the gas would cover eighty-five percent of the countries needs while that of kerosene fully covers the consumption of northern and north-western part which covers twenty percent of consumption of the entire country.
Mr. Mekonnen pointed out that Ethiopia gets 25 thousand square meter area from the government of Sudan with a minimum annual payment in order to build gas depot that enable her receive and store the gasoline, and when the depot is completed and arrangements are made for the gas to enter our country, there may be a situation where its price get reduced he explained.
When Ethiopia starts importing gas from Sudan, not only would it make it possible to save foreign exchange expense, but it would also create an option to the previously limited doors of Asab and Djibouti and make security of gas supply assuring.
The two countries signed a cooperation agreement June 7, 1998 in Khartoum that enabled Ethiopia get gasoline from Sudan as of the Gregorian New Year.
From Addis Zemen June 22, 2001.
The News EPLF Disseminate about Ethiopia was Groundless and Far form Truth
The news that the Ethiopia army getting in to the temporary security zone by the direction of Asab-Bure road and attacked a police station was groundless and far from truth, a higher official from the ministry of foreign affairs disclosed.
The official disclosed yesterday that the attack was launched by the EPLF opposition organization, the Red Cross Afar Democratic Organization, According to the statement it released yesterday..
While the attack was mounted by its own opposition, and EPLF couldn't resolve the problems within, it won't be a remedy to claim that Ethiopia was to blame, the official explained..
It's usual for EPLF to carry out such every propaganda, and Ethiopia has always been peace-seeking and obedient to the Algiers agreement, the official pointed out.
From Addis Zemen June 20, 2001.
Price Reduction has been made on Gas Products .
There has been reduction of retail price on gas products as of today for the coming three months, Ministry of Trade and Industry  disclosed. .
The ministry, in the statement it released yesterday pertaining to the amendment of price disclosed that in accordance to the approval of the council of ministers and the price tag that's going to be practical for the coming three months, since gas products showed price reduction, it's expected to see reduction in other retail products and services, too.
Based on the present price amendment, in Addis Ababa retail price of gas products, petrol /gas/ would be four Birr and four cents, Kerosine, one Birr and 80 cents, white diesel, two Birr and 62 cents per liter, black diesel, two Birr and 14 cents per liter, the statement disclosed..
Based on the price amendment, the statement reminded that all gas stations should make this practical, the statement disclosed.   .
From Addis Zemen April 3, 200.
Statement and Decision Given from the Ministry of Education
It's known that the administrative questions the Addis Ababa University raised are being given appropriate responses.
Even if the questions are questions of he campus students, illegal activities are underway in Addis Ababa City under the pretext of the question of the students.
At this time when the students' questions are being properly answered, there's no reason why they could be causes for disrupting the peaceful living condition of the people and government work, violence and looting.
Due to the disturbance instigated by the university students at around Arat Kilo University campus the day before yesterday, as it was disclosed in the mass media, ministry of education, commercial Bank, Tourist Hotel and other work places and organizations were struck..
Window panes were broken.
Not less that 10 cars which were the properties of National Examinations Organization were burned..
Had these been a place where petrol /gas were available, it would have been exposed to a severe damage.
And yesterday, too as a result of the intensification of this anti-people activity, several properties were destroyed..
All these illegal and anarchic activities were perpetrated in order for some political organizations which through free panel and peoples' votes last acceptance, to accomplish their political aim, using higher educational institutions as forums.  .
Although many students of higher institutions at this time, completing their education want to help their countries, people and their families few students who have political missions want to impede this aim and seek to have the former parade with them in their illegal aims and various crimes..
Ministry of Education wanted to remind that higher institutions are places where skilled work fore are produced but not hiding and gathering places for criminals.
Hence, to curb the problem that is being created, it was necessary to pass the following decision.
1. The Addis Ababa University is closed indefinitely as of yesterday April 18, 2001;
2. We warn other higher institutions not to be blindly led by groups who have special                 political missions and be reserved and follow their education in an orderly fashion.
3. Ministry of Education strictly reminds that parents being cognizant of the situation should           make the proper contribution in the effort government is making to keep the                       community's and their children's security..
Ministry of Education.
From Addis Zemen April 19, 2001
Hussien Iydid was Asked His Eviction From Ethiopia
Due to his statement made in an interview he has given recently stating that Somalians in Ethiopia and Kenya should be mixed with Somalia, the Somali people Democratic Party asked his eviction from Ethiopia.
The party's chairman, Ambassador Mohammed Dirir in the statement he gave yesterday expressed that he was so sorrowful to hear Hussien Iydid's speech and said Ethiopian Somalis live in Ethiopia, their rights being respected and are proud of their Ethiopian ness.
Moreover, he said Somali is one of the Ethiopian nationals.
He also asked Hussien Iydid's immediate eviction from Ethiopia.
The ambassador said that he was very sorry that Hussien Iydid's statement which said that including Ogaden, all areas where Somalis live in Ethiopia are bodies of Somalia; Somalis should be seen like the Germans who were separated by Berlin wall, are spoken being in Ethiopia..
The ambassador strongly reminded that such kinds of ideas should not be repeated, that everybody has to do his own work and asked Iydid to leave Ethiopia..
In the mean time, the Kenyan newspaper, the Daily Nation, the speech of Hussien Iydid is that of Warriors and in order such kind to people not to crate problems in Kenya, Kenyans should always be cautious, it reminded.
From the Press, February 6, 200.
In Eritrea the Youth Incited Rebellion – they are Getting into the Desert
In a disturbance that occurred at an annual church ceremony, at a district that included, in the new structure, partial siray and Akal Guzay southern zone, at an area nearby Adiquala, several youngsters destroyed government properties, it was disclosed..
On the date the different machineries the government prepared to construct a dam at a nearby village named Una Gebeten have become useless, the news added;
Among the many reasons that drove the youngesters to do this, the main one was believed to be the national military service that's going on in Eritrea.
The administrator of Adiquala sub-zone whom the news reached not only put the youth behind bars but also gave strong warning to their parents;
It's to be recalled that previously, too, many youngsters put forward questions refusing the proclamations the EPLF government alone passed on land, nationality, flag and administrative division;
In the mean time, at a time military clashes that surfaced in Eritrean western low lands became strong many youngsters are heading to the desert to fight EPLF, standing beside the Eritrean Islamic Front, it was pointed out.
Since many of them, among the youth, used to be members of EPLF and were reduced; those returned from National military service and former members of ELF, are believed to strengthen the military capacity of the oppositions;
Although the youngsters do not necessarily support the Islamic front, they joined the war in the principle "the enemy of my enemy is my friend..." and this is a great danger of for Eritrean people, the news it reached us explained.
The Eritrean government officials who were afraid of the situation, focused on building military training centers and purchasing modern ammunitions, the news that reached us pointed out. .
From Tobia September 25, 1997
The Presence of the hands of Religious People were said to contribute for the Strengthening of OLF
OLF which is additional enemy of our country, Ethiopia, and which has been showing its assistance to EPLF, for its growth and strengthening, the hands of religious people were present, it was disclosed.
As one report expressed, "Petros and his associates,who have been organizing support for EPLF's office in Switzerland up to recently, and who have been an impediment to the movement of Ethiopian sovereignty, and who were also taking shelter at the Orthodox Church in "the guest-house", and who have been in responsible position under-cover of Eritrean Orthodox Youth bureau, were helped by the priests and officials of Lutheran Federation to go abroad for they were supporters of EPLF."
It said.
The report that expressed in detail that Ethiopia is known for defending the internal and external enemies who rise against her in every generation, mentioned that the victory that was attained yesterday in Adowa and today in Beademe is a testimony, and among these internal and external enemies, EPLF and OLF are to be mentioned as having changed themselves from being comrades during the struggle, to an altogether enemies; "Previously, it was the office of Mekane Yesus...who sent abroad Edosa Gemichis and Shemsedin Abiyu, OLF (ABO) central committee members," and mentioned that not only once but twice were Mekane Yesus head office priests were caught sending gold and valuable stones to OLF agents through Kenya, the report pointed out.
The report which expressed that the Addis Ababa police knew the situation, pointed out that even now, police should follow the situation ..
From Fiameta September 8, 1999
"If Initiating Unrest and creating conflict were Yardsticks for Political Victory, No one would Excel Eritrea."
Professor Endrias
In a public meeting organized by ECA on December 9, 1980 under the motto legislative forum for Peace, Professor Endrias stated that the Eritrean government and Eritrean Peoples Liberation Front's leadership, who after a long struggle for freedom and great victory has now started moving towards a ravine, and it would really be difficult to think that they would almost instantaneously fade at the time of their birth.
Only five years old, how could she become trouble-maker and longing for war amongst her neighborhood? Who could expect leaders that came from a society of farmers and pastoralists, who toil each day to meet ends, would have, within a short span of time, a designating characteristic of military obstinacy and lawlessness.
In connection with the elite, he commented that the intoxicated and confused Eritrean action and leadership, to make matters worse, seemed to get unwavering support of the elite, and hence, both the leadership and elite seem to cooperatively feast in Unison over their death.     .
Professor Endrias returning to the present problem mentioned that it was not only Eritrea who could be accountable in this case, but the requirements for referendum should have been clear, admitting the errors committed with regards to this..
It was possible to make official agreement as to what kind of relationship Ethiopia and the freed Eritrea could have, and clearly decide the border demarcation, situations of economic cooperation, as well as the legislative rights Eritreans residing in Ethiopia may have..
Moreover, when explaining about the referendum since its legality and out come called for Ethiopia's common consent, and in order for major issues to have been solved fairly, it was easy, from the outset, to make Eritrea willingly abide by some kind of stringent pact.      .
This kind of pact gives citizens of both countries /including Eretreans residing in Ethiopia/ a strong base upon which they hope for.
Concluded his comment..
From Fiameta January 8, 1999
Ethiopian Airlines is to start Flight to Hargesa/Somali.
The Ethiopian Airlines disclosed that it would start its 44th international flight to Hargesa recently.
In the statement the airlines send to ENA yesterday, this flight is expected to serve both to those who go the Hargesa from Addis as well as to those who continue their flights passing via Addis Ababa..
In its aim to make African Countries Closer, the flight that starts as from march 26, 2001 to Hargesa, would take place twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday.
From Addis Zemen March 13, 2001
Editoria.
In Order to Wipe the tears shed around Judicatur.
People of the law say instead of arresting one individual unjustly, it is better for criminals to escape.
It is known that in a country where justice is to serve revenge, hatred, and politics, the truthful individuals and community's existence doesn't have any security.
Because of this, today in areas where armed oppositions are said to operate, especially in the Amhara and Oromia region, the family of a member of opposition parties are put behind bars.
Crime is individual by nature and in its not hereditary that passes through blood.
This is not alone.
Today the number of people who are imprisoned with one or the other reason have increased tremendously.
In addition, due to shortage of judges, the working procedures of courts have been shackled by crippling obstacles.
The security of government's perseverance, the protection and mainstay of the people are assured when bodies which carry out justice could work Freddy from any interference and influence.
We think that getting justice without waiting patiently and getting it as a gift is a right.
They say, "Delayed justice is injustice" (justice delayed is justice denied).
Especially, today in Federal courts where due to shortage of judges, courts of session are seen compact and issues are being postponed for later times.
The absence of the justice that used to be in the former governments, the fact that Ethiopians have been undergoing pain for they don't get justice at all, etc – created a big problem between the people and the government and history has registered it..
It made us encounter a problem that has not get calmed down and resulted in greater tension.
In short, the search of the people for justice struggle and hastening hasn't approached a legitimate answer.
Instead, the characteristic of the politics and the ruling party's stand has taken us very far from what the people wished for long.
It also made the struggle harsh.
The free judiciary system which should some as a tool for maintaining basic rights and a bridle for officials, has only been seen as a propaganda, which hurts us very much.
Free judiciary system is said to have got constitutional security.
But it is shackled by chain not to work
Since the current regime held power, just like the earlier one, many thousand citizens are cooped up behind bars.
But it's impossible to say that all that have been imprisoned are criminals.
Yet if this claim are said to be true, then it means sentimentality, revenge and hatred stood before justice.
From the perspective of law, no one is criminal unless he/she is made to dispute in a free court and verdict is passed on hem/her.
No one can be called criminal.
But when the present truth is viewed, our country' prisons can surely be said to have become places for stuffing free citizens.
How long will they stay behind bars those who don't know the entrance of the court, who were just called on the telephone, gathered by a radio call, took from their houses and the road, etc?
When justice's delayed it's hated like injustice;
This regime, the stand and activities of which are questionable, the moral strength of which is usually mentioned in its negativity, has been responding to the caused for the long arrest of prisoners of conscience, journalists, political individuals, and the like, the lack of judies, missing of prosecutors, opening files taking its time.
This is its won problem and pretext.
It is not acceptable in the face of the public and justice.
Those who put great faith in the judicature, citizens who were put behind bars in the different prisons, urgently need to hear a verdict in favor or against them.
We were told that certain people were taking training for the judiciary tasks.
Although we say that it's not proper the fact that judges are being trained in cadres training centre, but months have passed since it was told that 30 judies are prepared to be predated to the council of peoples' representative for promotion.
They were expected to be appointed before the council's break for summer recess.
But it didn't happen.
The council was expected to make the appointment of judges its first priority.
The expectation didn't work out.
People with cases are still unjustly treated.
The files which used to be postponed are being thrown again to be seen for 1999.
The judges who were said to have been trained with new outlook and belief would be seen in the days ahead as to what kind of faith they have to justice and their loyalty to the people, but we believe that they, even if to some extent, would be able to wipe the tears that are shed to day around the judicature due to excessive files an shortage of judges.
From Tobia November 6, 1997
On the Aftermath of the Oppositions Ceasefire, Mr. Meles said "The Door is open"
Ethiopian United Front (EUF) which has disclosed in its various statements made as of recently that it has been conducting military activities, passed on directives to its army for a ceasefire..
In the press statement he gave on September 20, 1999 regarding the peaceful activities Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, too said it was encouraging..
The Ethiopian United Front who declared ceasefire a week before Mr. Meles' speech in its statement of September 14, 1999, stated that in order for unity that should be established among opposition forces during this time, for the strengthening of sovereignty of our country which is at stake, for enabling EPRDF to investigate its policy and take necessary and appropriate measures, they've reached a ceasefire decision, it explained.    .
The Ethiopian United front arrived at this decision after the September 9-12 1999 summit meeting of the opposition forces in Paris..
In this Paris conference, those forces who had military wings chose peaceful and democratic strategy for their struggle, sticking with the ceasefire decision..
It's disclosed that these opposition forces were Afar Revolutionary Democratic Unified Front (ARDUF), Ethiopian Medhin Democratic Party (MEDHIN) and Ethiopian United Front (EUF).
While there was nothing clearly stated decision about whether these opposition forces would get into the country and take part in the upcoming election, some sources indicate that in the 2000 election opposition forces would get into the country and take part in the election..
Although the Ethiopian United front disclosed that it would stop its ongoing activities in northwestern parts and continue its struggle through peaceful means, up to recently it has been conducting armed struggle and on September 2, 1998 in Chilga District at Kuara area, one soldier of EUF had 45 minutes gun fire exchange against EPRDF search troop, not less than 10 died and 6 injured on EPRDF side where as no casualty was mentioned on EUF side..
It's after this that a ceasefire decision was reached at. .
And Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said from now on "The door is open..
Furthermore, he stated that now that getting rid of edgy feeling that was among opposition forces in Ethiopia, a foundation has been built that enable to interplay their political positions peacefully, opposition forces in the overseas, too, could get into the country as they hold their differences and operate within the legislation and regulation of the country; for this conducive environment has been laid to interplay their political aim, disclosed Meles in his recent statement. .
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
The Process of Returning Ethiopian Obelisk was Asked to Be Speedy
The EFDR president reminded to Italian Government to make its own effort to return swiftly to its native land the Ethiopian obelisk which is found in Rome.
While bading farewell to the Italian Ambassador, Mr. Marchelli Ricovirin, yesterday who completed his work time in Ethiopia, president Negaso told him that he was aware that Italy is found in the last chapter to return the obelisk but reminded that the effort be speedy, a spokesperson of the ministry of Foreign Affairs disclosed..
The president also admired Italy for the effort it made to peace fully resolve the clash between Eritrean and Ethiopia in her interest to make stable the peaceful condition in the horn of Africa..
The ambassador on his part reminded again that his government recently put in a bid on Europe level for the contract of transplanting the Ethiopian obelisk, transporting it to Ethiopia and fixing it at the preferred location..
From Addis Zemen May 18, 200.
Eritrea is Threatening to Wage a Serious Attack
Reportage
The condition of the Front
The Eritrea leadership claimed to have accepted the proposed suggestions for the agreement and executive strategies, but its said to the current chairman of organization of African Unity, president AbdulAzia butef Lika of Algeria that Ethiopia had earlier expressed her acceptance yet, now she said she declined so the war is inevitable, and reminded saying you'd better find short-cut resolve, calling his people to be initiated for war, wearing his other and real clothes of his identity.
Not even stating for a week after he had called his people to protect itself form Ethiopia's wide-range attack, he was defeated, on what he called could be the last chance, of serious attack at Zale Ambessa.
This showed that the peace effort that is being made at present doesn't have acceptability on the side of Eritreans and what they considered a solution is only a war.
The Eritrea leaders don't ever like the diplomatic way and only think that the only solution for everything is war, and they don't know that there are other options, so it is not useful from now on to be eagerly expect Ethiopian and Eritrean problem resolved peacefully.
So, Ethiopia has but one choice-to once and for all resolve her problems through defeating the war victoriously. .
Although it's a great loss for Ethiopia to enter in to war, discontinuing the development campaign that she had already started due to Eritrean's intriguing leadership, it would be loss after loss unless he, in a very short time, became victorious in this crucial battle, defeating Eritrea's force, for it's the only option for her.
For this campaign, Ethiopian children have risen determinedly to sacrifice both their lives and financially, which all Ethiopia from all quarters are speaking about it.
The Peace proces.
The peace process that had started earlier was discontinued.
U.S. America and other powerful governments have attempted to pressurize Ethiopia to execute the peace plan and the strategic implementation of it.
Ethiopia was needed to sign first the cease-fire without any precondition based on the request.
Not only willingly but forcefully did they went he to implement, for which case Antoni Lake and Suzan Rice came to Addis Ababa and talked to Ethiopian leaders.
However, Ethiopia disregarded the request unless the exact location the Eritrean army leaves was known, and their effort became futile.
This showed that it's not Eritrea that has become an obstacle for the peace process now but it is U.S.
So Ethiopia should be cautious about America, as well as the people should rise knowing its international enemies, it pointed out.
Special Cautio.
It's to be recalled that last week the EPLF leadership made a serious attack on Zalambessa front, but it was in vain.
Although the attack can not be said to have limited by that attack, we would like to remind that the most heavy attack could be on the eastern front.
The anti-Ethiopian forces who want to enter through the eastern and southern front are especially the Oromo Liberation Front organization, which had already become insurgents through the other front, so we expect that great focus should be laid on the arias of insurgency.
From Fiameta September 8, 1999
A Journey to a Historical Site
Among the ancient church found in Lake Tana, one is Yenarga Trinity church on the island of Dek.
This church was built for Queen Mintiwab (1730-1755) a religions father whom we met at the place told us.
We saw that the holy wall just like those churches found in the neighborhood was decorated with ancient pictures.
We also came to know that the grass roof to which became ruined in the 1981 and was not allowed to undergo renovation has now been substituted by corrugated iron sheets.
After we visited the Barga Trinity church we retuned to our ship..
And making our way to Bahir Dar, we went to Zege.
We were told that the kebran Saint Gabriel church which was built in the 15th century and Ura Kidane Mihret Church which was built in the 17 century was found on Zege island.
In the ship Beers and Soft drinks and sold with not-so-cheap price.
Travelers have opened their services..
The smell of tasty chicken sauce opened most people's appetite for food.
Travelers next to us asked us if we wanted to share their food which they kept in the traditional food bag that is made of leather skin and dry grass..
But we apparently declined..
Expecting they would insist saying "please".
But they didn't say so..
So we didn't eat despite the good smell that pours in and our insatiable appetite..
As soon as we reach Zege Island we heard on hand-held micro phone news that is not good to the ears..
It was the voice of the guide of the Travelers' club whom we accustomed to so soon..
Since it's going to be evening we were told that the captain of the ship couldn't go to Zege.
The calm that reigned within travelers suddenly transformed to disturbance.
Although the travelers' club has already charged thirteen Birr from each traveler promising to show the four monasteries, many said that completion of the day's visit with only 2 monasteries was not appropriate..
Some suggested that it's not necessary to indulge in to such an argument while cruising on a ship..
Later, one monk was sent to ask the captain to go the Zege.
The captain replied that since it's got dark he wouldn't take any responsibility..
Many argued that their money be returned.
But the ship didn't stop.
Advancing forward, the ship stopped as if it completed its journey at about 5:20 at a place we first aboard..
The captain was made to aboard and talk to passengers.
The captain stood before the people folding his arms and told that he took the measure for the sake of the people's peace and security..
It was obviously seen that the joyous feeling many of us had at about the beginning of the visit, gradually turned into sadness.
One of our colleagues who met staffs of the organization which is responsible for the ship talked to them with regards to our program..
But these workers were seen shying away from it claiming that they were not higher officials..
Anyway, this journey was completed regardless of its contract..
But in our belier, the situation should not continue in this way..
Just as the former schedule, traveler ought to have visited the historical places as long as they pay their money.
Other wise it would be better if the advertisement clearly states that the visitors are to see those, places as time permits..
After our return from the visit of Lake Tana, we spent the night in Bahr Dar..
On the morrow, we left for Gondar from Bahr Dar, Azezo, which is found 739 kilometers from Addis Ababa seemed to say to us, at the outset of the city ... welcome.
Most of the residences that are found at the right and left of the road are dilapidated and it's obvious that they longed for renovation..
If towns had tongues to speak that they need renovation perhaps Azezo would be the first one to utter.
We reached Gondar at about evening after having traveled in neither a gravel nor asphalted road.
The town was not built on a suitable location..
Perhaps it was because of this reason that her development was not so obvious as her establishment..
Many of the hotels are old..
In order to find a hotel to stay the night in this ancient city it took us more than an hour..
Don't ask me the hotel payment..
It was finally that we got rented bedroom with fair payment in a certain house that has wide premise..
I remember the music that says, "There's no coffee, but had there been some, there's no place like Gondar."
And is it true that there's no coffee in this town?
It was a question I asked myself.
However, in the morning together with my friend we ordered coffee at a café and proved there was coffee.
While sipping the coffee I imagined what the ancient Gondar might be.
Then, when Fasil stood overseeing the erection of the building, Tewdros being in the grandstand talking to the people.
I imagined visitors and researchers coming from Europe, crossing the Red Sea, through the lowland, I remembered those Jesuits who came to widen the catholic faith..
Any way, after discussing with the representative of Gondar Danger protection and Preparedness commission, for it was our purpose of going there, and then continued our program to Gondar castle.   .
Although we know from our education that the ancient city, Gondar, which is the reflection of Ethiopian history and culture and was the seat of Ethiopia kings after the 16th century, and have many long cultures and customs, we had to get some other person to do additional briefing..
The zonal Information and Tourism Department assigned an adult man who was eloquent speaker.               .
This guide told us that Gondar was a very small town in the 16th century and king Fasil who reigned in 1640 made Gondar its permanent seat, built a huge palace in the center of the town.
Showing us the palace from a near distance..
(continued)
From Addis Zemen September 2, 1997
Ethiopia Disclosed that Eritrea Planned to Open an Attack
In her appeal she put forward last Wednesday, Ethiopia state that Eritrea planned to attack industrial and historical sites in the northern part of the country, African News Service GS disclosed.
Ethiopian government spokes person Solome Tadesse in the statement she made expressed that Eritrea is prepared to attack the historical heritages of Axum city and the industrial town of Adowa from her military base in Southern Tsorena town.
"We got intelligence information that Eritrea moved one brigade army from Sudan and based it at Tsorena, planned to attack the Axum historical heritages and industries in Adowa," reuters stated quoting the spokesperson..
On the other hand, it is to be recalled that one Eritrean border administrator said to the BBC radio that Ethiopia has 55000 troops at Tsorena.
At present, the troops of both countries are facing each other at the strategic location of Tsorena, 30 kilometers from Deke Mehari..
Melitary sources disclosed that if war breaks, it could be at this hilly and strategic location, Tsorena, and even now it is known that there are sporadic gun fires around the area.
United States need to show her position clearly t Eritrea who has repeatedly been disobedient to execute the peace plans of the OAU, while Ethiopia accepted and is waiting to enforce it..
Simply trying to mediate the two countries can't resolve the prevalent problem which resulted from Eritrea's rigidity, so United States is expected to clearly show her position..
In the mean time, the statement United States President Clinton made on January 22 that said the two countries should not go to war at this time where Ethio-Eritrean border tension escalated doesn't precisely show her position except as a recommendation.       .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
Mamo Wolde has been Offered regular Salary by the International Olympic Committee
The Mexica Olympic marathon gold medalist captain Mamo Wolde has started receiving monthly salary from the International Olympic Committee, it was disclosed..
Since the EPRDF government took power Mamo Wolde was accused of red terror and he is under arrest; although the International Olympic Committee several times had a discussion with the Ethiopian government officials to effect his release, the question couldn't get acceptance..
Although the president of the International Olympic committee Mr. Antonio Samaraz, talked about this issue on the phone for the release of Mamo with Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenewi the response offered from the Prime Minister was that it's only the law that could release Mamo, and hence didn't accept his question..
The International Olympic Committee not only hired him a lawyer for the court proceedings, it has now offered him 300 dollars monthly salary to help his family.  .
In a statement given to one Inter sport paper, his wife Mrs. Aberash told that he's doing well and recovering from his illness, he has been in the hospital case for 6 weeks but now he's out..
Moreover, Mrs. Aberash explained that due to his increasing age, he couldn't withstand the bronchitis illness he has had, and she is hoping that government would release him or give speedy justice, she disclosed..
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
The Real Picture of the Looting of the Church was Exposed
The money collected from people who made vows by the laity development committee on an anniversary of Abune Aregawi (Gebrechristos church) disappeared before the controllers from National Preaching identify it.
The case has been very much aggravated by the incident and the controlling official of the church was sacked from work while the church administrator was made to transfer to Diredawa..
Although the National Preaching Office has taken some measures, the money that disappeared hasn't yet found and gotten in the ledger, and this has been a talking-point..
The response that was given from the special office of the patriarch to children of the church, who exposed this incident and was taken up on measure through administrator, was not known for the time being.
The letter presented to the patriarch and for the office of National Preaching, however, explained about the looting..
When we present this full text of the application letter, it is belief that they would get better understanding.
To the Ethiopian Orthodox Monophysitism Church, Addis Ababa Office of the National Preaching,
Addis Ababa
I, Mrs. Atsede Degafe whose address is district 24, kebele 15, House no. 614 and who work as an accountant of the Abune Aregawi Gebrekirstos Church, apply the following.
On May 22, 1997 in the afforested Church 7986 (Seven thousand nine hundred eighty six) Birr was collected for the purpose of asphalting the road in the name of development, but to avoid the payment of the ten percent income that's to be paid for the Addis Ababa National Preaching office and from being detected by the controllers of the office, the money was hidden by the church's chairman of preaching congregation..
Nevertheless, it is to be recalled that out of these Birr, 2500 (two thousand five hundred) has gotten in to the ledger by Model 64, the rest 5486 (five thousand four hundred eighty six) Birr had not entered through model 64 and since I don't know as to the where about of this money, and since I asked orally time and again, though of no use, I wrote an request letter to the church office on July 17/8/97..
Hence, if you don't clear up this issue soon and let me know, I had already make a copy of this letter to the office of National Preaching and the Special Office of the Patriarch, and since there was no response from there, I am now obliged to rewrite to this office.
Applicant Mrs. Atsede Degafe
Copy, for Special Office of the Patriarch
Addis Ababa         .
While this is the letter of the accountant, the administration had taken a measure up to suspending her from work..
Nobody seems to ask about the money that as wasted by the chairman of the preaching congregation.
Although the Addis Ababa office of National preaching proved the case through witnesses, they were not seen to take measures to have the money back..
From Fiameta December 17, 1998.
The International Monetary Fund Approves 112 Million American Dollar Debt for Ethiopi.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) in its new program of poverty avoidance that would bring about development and make Ethiopia beneficiary, approves a 112 million dollar debt in principle.
The debt enables to carryout this program of poverty avoidance that bring about development in the country for three years, it would be practical as from the day before yesterday, the statement that was released from the organization disclosed..
22 million of the debt would be payable immediately, the statement of the organization disclosed.
The International monetary Fund decided to give the money to the country because the economic policy the Ethiopian government designed to bring about economic policy the Ethiopian government designed to bring about economic stability was found able to avoid poverty it said.
Taking out the economy form war and leading it to poverty avoidance economic policy and submitting itself to the peaceful principle that bring about lasting peace, are improvements that have been seen recently by the Ethiopian government..
In related news, the organization disclosed that in a plan that it previously held to implement and in writing-off-debts program the organization permit for the very poor countries, Ethiopia was, in principle, embraced..
From Addis Zemen March 22, 200.
The International Olympic Committee is to offer an Important Honorary Award to Athlete Haile Gebreselassis.
The International Olympic Committee decided to give an important honorary award to the two-time Olympic Gold medal and owner of a four international record, athlete Haile Gebreselassie.
Athlete Haile received a call to go to Switzerland (Suzan) city where the committee's office is seated after a month to be present in an award-giving ceremony.
In a telegram call the International Olympic Committee sent, it stated that it was decided to give an important honorary award to athlete Haile due to the fantastic results he registered for the last eight years and for the contribution he made for the development of Olympic sport.
In the Olympic museum which is found in Suzan City and which has undergone extensive renovation and improvement and that is to be opened in June, an honorary award named the "Olympic order" would be given to Haile, it was disclosed..
Haile who have been far from competition after Sydney's Olympic victory, has told that he started limited training and was extremely happy to be elected for this honorary award.    .
Haile who has been known for breaking 15 world records in eight years is now the holder of four records..
From Addis Zemen May 4, 2001  .
EPLF Should not be given another opportunity!
Isayas Afeworki expressing his peace-seeking ambition, and yet, side by side he's secretly aggravating his warrior aims and not only one but twice had he attempted to make repeated attacks on Ethiopia, though they weren't successful, resulting in great harm on his army, and causing an intentionally now and then attack on Ethiopia so that the fight couldn't subside soon, making Ethiopia and Ethiopians couldn't look up to peace.
Although he was heard as fully accepting the Algiers' treaty proposed by leaders summit, he took this measure in order to buy time, and organize his army, and continue the war, this should not be forgotten and can be understood from his recent diplomatic activities.
Diplomatic Campaig.
Isayas Afeworki went to Washington, Us America last week.
The reason given for his journey was reported from Eritrea to be a call make from Eritreans living there.
However, according to the disclosure of diplomatic sources from the area, Isayas went, not because he was made a call but he went there to conduct the usual diplomatic campaign, it was disclosed.
While on the one hand, Eritrea accepted the Algiers proposition and strategies of implementation (resolution), he condemned Ethiopia for presenting pretexts not to accept it and make an effort to speak convincingly as if Ethiopia is a warrior, on the other hand, since Ethiopia would continue the war, in order for Eritrea to defend her sovereignty from the aggressor, Ethiopia, Eritrean citizens it is a campaign to make all Eritrean citizens urgently contribute money that could be of use to their country's defense force..
Side by side, Isayas Afeworki and his active and misleading diplomats are hiding their own intrigue and widely propagating that at the time Eritrean showed her resoluteness to execute the peace effort, Ethiopia is not willing to accept it and they are making an effort to make their international community condemn Ethiopia.
Nevertheless, it should be expected from the experience of EPLF leadership so far that they may try to attack with their unchangeable strategy once they had had sufficient time for preparation.
The situation that can be seen in relation to this is that Ethiopia has raised question with regards to the technical execution looking into the proposition forwarded to her (resolution).
She raised this question to the present chairman of the Organization of African Unity and the Algerian president, AbdulAziz Buteflika and experts of OAU met last week to respond to the question.
Ethiopia expressed that if she doesn't get a response to her question, she would be in a difficult position to officially disclose her standpoint.
The Algiers expert team accepted her question for it was appropriate and said it would give an urgent response after consultation, last week.
On the other hand, there are sides who are putting pressure on Ethiopia to accept the case-fire without any condition, it was disclosed.
In this regard, the International Monetary Fund is putting pressure on Ethiopia to stop the war for she is losing the economic development she had already registered.
On the other hand, it didn't look in to the conspiracy Eritrea is up to and take any pressure on Eritrea.
In this case, if Ethiopia doesn't cease-fire, she wouldn't get debt or aid money..
Not only this, the writing-off debt would also be in the same package, there's a proposition.
Since this is a tough test, it needs cautionary decision.
Recruiting and Trainin.
Although the Eritrean people came to understand the present intrigue of Isayas' leadership and realized that Ethiopia is not an aggressor, and wouldn't offer its children for such a war, as it was disclosed from some Medias, the leadership of Isayas is speeding up its recruiting and training, it was disclosed.
While he used different obstruction methods to stop the soldiers from retreating the war front, they are, unlike previously, going to Sudan in many numbers, reports from Sudan disclosed.
Although their combatant feeling and moral is not known and their future condition is unpredictable, his effort to strengthen work force is not to be seen lightly.
On the side of Ethiopia, conspiracy of EPLF's leadership has long been detected and so it disclosed that Ethiopia defense force is make ready.
This preparedness would give the necessary greater opportunity to defend the sudden attack of EPLF and attack..
The Attack process of the second Fron.
After the strong defeat of the Esayas' leadership in the northern front, even after its repeated attacks, they came to realize that they couldn't attack any more the Ethiopian army, and so trained and armed soldiers led by Hussien Iydid, the Somalian war leader and through him the Oromo Liberation Front, Al ITHAD and Tokichuman fighters, and led by EPLF commander-in-chiefs waged a terrorist attack repeatedly in may and July and second week of August on eastern Ethiopia, though became futile.
On Bademe and Sheraro front, the EPLF army waged a sudden attack on Ethiopia while the latter was deceived by false friendship forgetting their stand and caused damage, and EPLF had similar plans on the eastern front to cause severe damage.
However, what EPLF and Hussien Iydid conspired in Somalia was exposed by the opposition faction of Iydid, Rehan Woyn opposition forces and gave the information to Ethiopia, where the latter, force, even before they get organized, dismissed their soldiers including their military bases, by getting in to Somalia, causing a great damage..
These anti-Ethiopian forces revived and at first in May, later in July passing through Ethiopian border and while attempting to disrupt the peace, were dismissed.
Especially on the second week of August, entered Ethiopia with lots of force and in their attempt to disrupt the peace, they were dismissed, particularly the Oromo Liberation Front was hit almost once and for all, the statement given by ministry of Defense disclosed last week.
The leader of this anti-people terrorist campaign of warriors, Beredu Biru was killed by the defense force, the commander of the campaign who used to give orders in the fight, Shentema was taken captive, and it was disclosed.
In general, 425 were taken captives while more than 600 were killed.
This defense force's efficient measures taken on the second front have made Isayas' aim failure.
The measure taken was to be appreciated for it took immediate response using reliable information.
Nonetheless, since the anti-Ethiopian force that entered that direction is not to be limited by that attempt and since the pressure of EPLF would continue, the preparedness of defense force should not be taken lightly, political analysts gave their suggestions..
In order that anti-Ethiopian forces not organize and prepare for another damage, swift information digging has to be done, chasing them away and hitting them so that they won't ever revive, and sterilizing all the situations that are conducive for them, military specialists who have experience in gorilla fighting consulted.               .
Analyzing the Future Situation
The Eritrean leadership has no willingness to implement the agreement it signed in Algiers, political analysts are suggesting..
If Eritrea claimed that Ethiopia had once again wanted to colonize Eritrea and, hence, waged aggression on her, after having accepted all treaties up to now, the people would rise against them and fear of losing power, so they would prefer to get into war, political analysts told.
In general, so as to be victorious in the war, Ethiopia has to make efficient preparation and be able to dismiss the enemies in both fronts, they are suggesting.
However, it would be the primary task to patiently analyze the comments that could be forwarded by the westerners and expose the plot of Isayas' warrior ship.
For this it calls for presenting tangible evidences and waging high diplomatic campaign.
The commander of OLF, shentema, could be a peculiar example of testimony for indicating that EPLF's leadership have participated in this campaign, for he would testify that it was EPLF who trained, organized, gave him arms and sent him to fight against Ethiopia.
The other evidence was their plan to make the Oromo Liberation Front disrupt the peace and security of Ethio-Kenyan towns, and claim the responsibility to Ethiopia, paving ways for Kenya and Ethiopia to go to war.        .
The problem was resolved because Kenya made a search and found ten armed soldiers of OLF; recently in Djibouti, too there was found an individual named Kasim, a leader of anti-Djibouti group, made an attack on Djibouti, militarily supported by EPLF, and as a result, there are may who say diplomatic campaign should be waged against him, for he's found playing a dangerous role in the horn of Africa.
If Ethiopia holds upper hand in the diplomatic campaign and convince the international community, avoiding the pressures that come before her, the military measures she takes would be practical without a hunch, political analysts suggest.
From Fiameta August 25, 1999
Netherlands is said to cut Down Her Ai.
Netherlands's foreign minister announced that out of the 80 countries his government used to assist, it has now announced that it will continue providing aid to only 20 countries, making high reduction.
This was announced in Hague by Director of Development Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Brham Van Ogie..
According to the statement made by Mr. Ogic this measure of reduction was taken so as to make the small number of countries who are in desperate need of the aid more beneficiary..
He pointed out that a resolution had passed after a long heated argument took place in the parliament, and the next step is to decide which countries should be chosen and that was to be decided in a few months.
The selection would be made on three major requirements: the country must be poor, it must desperately need the aid, and it should have good governance, follow democracy..
In my opinion, Ethiopia fulfills this requirement, and there's no chance that makes Ethiopia out of the list, he said. .
From Fiameta January 8, 1999
Higher Officials of Our Defense Force were not Clean from Corruption and Anti-Democratic Working Procedure
Corruption and anti-democratic dangers that are blocking the way of our regime were seen at different level and bodies in higher management of our defense force and are ropes that tie them with TPLF factions, higher officers in the management disclosed..
In an interview they made with journalists yesterday in the ministry of defense about the prevalent conditions of the country sine corruption and anti-democratic working procedure were seen at each level, it is impossible to say that our defense force is clean from it.  .
In their relation with higher management of civil institutions as well as government authorities there are members who are involved in corruption activities, and a committee was organized and has started its activities to investigate corruption crimes in the different levels of our defense force, they disclosed..
As soon as the committee completes its work it would bring the criminals to justice.
In addition to corruption crimes there were members who held anti-democratic thinking and block transparency and free flow of ideas among the army, they pointed out.
Our defense force should have strong faith, transparency and free flow of ideas should reign among themselves in order to perform its constitutional duties, and, there fore, it is appropriate to dismiss these people who have anti-democratic thinking from the management and create a motivating environment for work, reminded these higher officers.
Sine management bodies who had crucial role but couldn't go along with new thinking and change were dismissed from their position, some groups especially members who are faction of TPLF are talking as if our defense force became weakened. .
In a related disclosure, they assured that our country have produced and prepared high officers who could make the army go along with new mode to thinking and direction of change, and, therefore, there couldn't be any worry of becoming weakened.
The division among TPLF leadership hasn't produced any problem in the defense force and such kind of problem could be created in the army when there is a problem only in its own leadership and organization, they said.
According to the explanation of the officers, no individual or any organization can't use the army as its own stick.
We are the one who led the battle against EPLF.
Those who claim that the army is divided because it lost our leadership are the factions who tried to use them but failed.  .
There was an attempt to make the army stand for certain groups' aim out of its constitutional duties, and by isolating the leadership that tried this, a conducive environment has been created to make it continue maintaining its strength, they explained.
Our defense is not an institution that is pulled by other body but its an experienced one that moves in its own thinking and as long as there is no force that compulsorily change constitutional order, it won't aggravate political crisis that are brought by individuals and groups, they disclosed.
Answering to the questions journalists raised in relation to whether they discussed on the document prepared by EPRDF, they said the army has a responsibly to defend dangers that hinder its constitutional order, journey and direction, and in order to efficiently carryout this responsibility, it should, first of all, know the document that points out the direction of the order, they explained.
In related explanation, this army which is entrusted a great government and people's responsibility, not only as an army but as citizens it's its rights as well as duties to discuss upon the prevailing conditions of the country' they underscored.
Pointing out that the war against EPLF was victoriously concluded by Ethiopians, and that a glittering conquest was registered, they said the people's support, the efficiency of the army and leadership of the government played decisive contribution for the achievement of resounding victory; but the faction of TPLF didn't have operative thinking of combat that enable it victorious through efficient leadership, they disclosed.
Moreover, the higher officers said that the claim of the factional group in stating EPLF was dismissed by our leadership was just snatching and confusing the history of the people, and it wasn't able to give a leadership that enabled victory, which was a fact that the central and front leadership was aware of, they said.
At this time the defense force as a national defense army its found capably and is ready to carry out the responsibility entrusted upon it by the people and government to protect the constitutional order, and enemy forces that at different concurrences dispute the sovereignty of Ethiopia and challenge constitutional order, they assured.    .
From Addis Zemen June 19, 2001.
The Final words of Tale Geta Leul who was Forced to Testify against Dr. Taye
Tale Geta Leus who testified to Dr. Taye Woldesemayat on the afternoon of October 27, 1998 who appeared as the 4th accused, moved all in tears as he spoke the suffering he underwent while he was investigated by the police..
Tale Geta Leul explained his sacrifice for the truth by saying that my religion and conscience which brought me suffering and anguish won't allow me to testify falsely and I didn't have the courage to testify falsehood..
Before he testifies that day, the central judge was observed warning him not to speak about others, except about himself..
In our last edition, we expressed how Tale Geta was secretly taken and the paint to beating he underwent..
He expressed to the court the suffering and anguish he underwent after he went to central police prison as follows..
At that time, due to the electric throbbing, my body hurt and swelled..
While I was in this state, they asked my name, age and address and forced me to sign on a paper which I don't know what is written in it.
Then, I was sent to police Hospital for medication as my pain was unbearable..
The hospital doctors saw my condition, the swelling of my body and my inability to pee.
They were shocked and sorrowful..
By inserting thin tube through the opening of my penis and sucked blood and urine..
And I was relieved somehow..
They sent me back to the central criminal investigation..
I stayed for four days without visitors after the medication.
On the fifth day I was called to appear at a higher investigation official..
I appeared at the investigation official's office..
Talegeta Leul, can you hear me, we have nothing from you..
You are a destitute guy; we know that you're responsible for your family and work here and there to lead your life..
What we need from you is to cooperate with us to control and bring to justice Dr. Taye Woldesemayat and Mr. Kebede Desta from Ethiopian Teachers Association (ETA) and Mr. Gebretsadik from all Amhara People's organization (AAPO) who has been troublesome to the government..
If you cooperate with us and do as you are told by investigative police officers, we promise fulfill whatever you need..
He put off a golden necklace from his neck and said I'm a Christian, showing me the cross.
If you give lessons on the radio and TV as you're told by the police investigators and called for the young, I will promise you by the name of 15000 brothers who sacrificed their lives for the struggle.
So, we would give you by writing what you would say on the radio and television about Dr. Taye Woldesemayat..
There won't be any problem that you would face..
They said..
And I told them that I can't do it, I don't know the persons and the organization whom you callas Ethiopian National Patriots and Ethiopian National Front, expressing that I didn't charge my position.
The second investigator told me that it's because they sympathized with me and thought about my future, other wise he said, we could prepare another person that testify against you.
Instead, release yourself..
He said.
I want the honorable court to understand that I saw the individual named Yoseph (Biresaw) who claimed to be head of military wing of Ethiopian patriot's front, first when he was whipped turning upside down at a certain investigation scene, and secondly when he testified here.
But the others, Dr. Taye woldesemayat, Mr. Kebede Desta and Mr. Gebretsadik I saw them here on August 7, 1997 in this court session for the first time..
The other thing the I want the court to view is that due to the hardship falsehood investigation I underwent, I have had a broken bone on my chest and skull and on my lap and on my ankle, and as a result of the harsh beating I'm suffering from the swelling, explained the covert sacrifice he paid for the froth.      .
The center judge said, "What hood would it give you if we see your brokenness and boy hurting? If you didn't finish your testimony we would give you another appointment.".
Writing his suffering, they give appointment for December 11 1998..
From Fiameta November 26, 199.
Fourteen Journalists Are in Prison
In the fifth anniversary of the press proclamation that took place at National Theatre by the government-organized Ethiopian Journalists Association, with empty hall and few supporters of the regime, the fact that it didn't mention the imprisonment of 14 journalists and the 3 papers which were out of publication, and the fact that it didn't take any standpoint exposed itself that the association was organized by those who desire to earn their living by deception and not by those who stood for the honor of the profession.
In a meeting in which the association commemorated the day, the stand point of the government that "Free press become the press of the oppositions" have emphatically reflected, and the hate propaganda that have started to be exercised as of recently indicated that there's a preparation to attack also other free press products.
"Ethiop" and "Wenchif" were among the newspapers that are supposed to come out this week but they were obliged to be out of publication, Mr. Sisay Agil, Publisher of "Ethiop" and the editor-in-chief Tewdros Kasa and, editor Tesfa Tegegn of the newspaper have been in region 14 police commission and central criminal Investigation.  .
The editor-in-chief of Wenchif newspaper Tamrat Serbesa and his deputy Admasu Tesfaye have been in jail at the central investigation since October 12, 1998.
The editor-in-chief of Urji newspaper Solomon Nemera and the deputy, Tesfaye Deresa have been imprisoned since August 14, 1998.
In addition to this Nega Tariku, Wondwosen Mesele from Keyet newspaper, and Andualem Mohammed have been improsoned since August.
At this time in Addis Ababa prison, four journalists, that is, Sisay Nigussie from Agere Newspaper, Samson Seyoum from Tequami newspaper, Abay Hailu from welafen newspaper, Tolera Tesema from Meda Welabo newspaper were judged but couldn't get guarantor and weren't able to go out from prison on bail; together with these fourteen journalists are in jail.
Although it's appropriate to legally ask journalists when press crime is committed, arresting and imprisoning editors, a campaign to weaken the free press would hurt the democratic process, too and so all human rights organizations and democratic forces should make heard their voices, most suggested..
From Tobia October 23, 1997
President Negasso Giddada Left from the Council of Central Committee Meeting of EPRD.
While the council of central committee regular session was about to complete its discussion on economic issues, President Negasso Giddada left the meeting, the council of EPRDF disclosed.
Dr. Negasso Giddada who is executive body of OPDO's central committee and executive committee member of EPRDF left from the membership of the council on a ground that there was pressure upon him from the leadership, the council disclosed.
According to the members of the council, especially OPDO members of the council and participants said on their part that Dr. Negasso Giddada's reason for leaving the session on the pretext of pressure was groundless.
The main reason for Dr. Negasso's leaving the session was his unwellness to accept the ongoing reform, the members disclosed.   .
Since Dr. Negasso was found to be in favor of certain groups during the debate in EPRDF executive committee and later on of the activities conducted by the faction groups of TPLF, he simply expected that strong criticism may be forwarded to him in this committee and he preferred to leave the session, the council explained.
After the economic evaluation was completed, it was agreed that dangers of narrowness and arrogance would be evaluated, where as Dr. Negasso left before this agenda was taken up for discussion, which showed nothing but his escape from struggle of ideas and evaluation.
The EPRDF council would make the discussion it held with regards to this issue official in the pubic media in a few days, it disclosed.
In the mean time, in the meeting the central committee of OPDO and the organization's cadres held, they disclosed that they dismissed Dr. Negasso Giddada, the organization's executive committee member, EPRDF's central committee executive member and the Federal Government's president from its membership of the organization's central committee.
In a statement it released yesterday under the title "our reform journey won't be hindered by opportunists", the OPDO central committee stated that although forgetting the responsibility the public entrusted upon him, Dr. Negasso stood loyally by the side of the faction groups, and while he could entertain his differences in idea being in the organization, the organization is obliged to take a dismissal measure for he attempted to impede organizational activities in anti-democratic ways. .
As of yesterday, Dr. Negasso Giddada can in any forum represent OPDO, and the organization would like to disclose that OPDO would continue the ongoing reform process in such away as to deep fully our people's right and benefits.       .
It called for the Oromo people and all OPDO members to give support end stand by the organization so as to make this reform measure a success.
From Addis Zemen June 23, 2001
The Ban on Six National Team Players was Lifted
The Ban on six Players who returned their Country out of the 16 who escaped at the transit in Italy while the Ethiopian National Football team was on its way to play a game against Morocco there on January 20, 1997, was lifted after some six months..
The indefinite ban imposed by the Ethiopian Football Federation on the player was lifted last Wednesday during the meeting of the management committee of the federation.
The six players are Ethiopian Coffee's forward attacker Getachew Kasa (Bubu), Omedla club goal keeper, Ali Redi, as well as Sain George club's players, Fasil Tekalegn, Anteneh Alamerew, Ashenafi sisay and Tsegaye Bati..
The federation lifted the ban considering that football is the boys and their families' mere income, their young age and their previous contribution to the national team, the federation disclosed..
The six player's were banned from playing football because they deliberately escaped with ten others in Italy, and after knowing they wouldn't be successful, and since they asked an apology, returned home they were just passed with warning hot to commit similar act in the future..
It was known that the decision doesn't include those ten players who remained in Rome, and since the ban was lifted, they can play in any game. .
As long as it is believed that the boys are capable and skillful, the mistakes they had committed won't prohibit them from being selected in the national team.          .
From Addis Zemen August 8, 1997
Aba Paulos was said not to Continue Being a Father of the Ethiopian Orthodox Monophysitism Church
Teachers, priests and laity of the Ethiopian Orthodox Monophysitism Church disclosed that "Aba Paulos" couldn't continue being a Father of Ethiopian Orthodox Monophysitism church due to the deep rooted problem..
Due to the religious and administrative problems the patriarch and Aba Gerima created, there has been an open opposition since 1996 and situations have transformed from bad to worse, for the patriarch and his friends despise everything and everyone, the priests and the laity took a unified stand by claiming that Aba Paulos shouldn't be the leader of the Orthodox Monophysitism church..
1. The Ethiopian Orthodox monophysitism church Association of the laity,
2. The Ethiopian Orthodox monophysitism church teachers, priests and workers fellowship (followers    of principle of monophysitism) an.
3. The Ethiopian Orthodox monophysitism church coordinating committee of the laity in unison wrote a letter to office of Beatitude Archbishops and Holy Synod explaining the problems in detail that as long as these creators of problems are present, the church couldn't exist, the letter explained.
The dignity of the ancient church has been degraded due to the patriarch; her belief order flawed, pillaging and demagogy reigned love and peace vanished, and Aba Paulos has humiliated the honor of the holy people, mocked at God, ridiculed the laity and priests boldly violated the church's belief and dogma, did injury to the Christian laity, the message of the priests an laity broadly analyzed..
Many Wise men, priests and various workers have been exiled from the church they grew up and lived, and Aba Paulos who claimed everything just as "Baalak" called Balam to curse the people of God and proved his selfishness, he's proving his cruelty, and those priests and the laity who came to understand this have been continuing their peaceful and unified efforts for the Orthodox Monophysitism..
As if he were free from any misdeed, these were times when he was heard claiming to amend the spoilt administration, to correct the religious fallacy and violation of dogma and flatly accusing all who stood against him stating that they hated him because he is Tigrean, people who hated me are Amharas..
But since the "truth will eventually win" his claim as being Tigrean was proved to be far from the truth since Tigrean priests an laity have disregarded him.
From now on there's no pretext he could give, observers told..
The associations of laity, wise men and priest have come to the final conclusion that Aba Paulos couldn't continue being a religious leader because they came to understand who the Patriarch is and what he does, and because after having repeated consultation, they couldn't be heard, the message explained.                   .
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
New visa Offering Has Started Between Ethiopia and Sudan
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs disclosed that new and better kinds of visa offering order has started.
A spokesperson of the ministry of foreign Affairs in its disclosure yesterday stated that in the agreement reached at the fifth meeting of the ministers of both countries a working producer has been laid since last May 3 where citizen of one of the countries who has a diplomatic service or special passport can enter another country without a visa.
Moreover a working order is to be laid as from the coming July for citizens of both countries who have ordinary passports so as to enable them get visa efficiently..
It's to be recalled that the fifth mutual plenary session of Ethiopian and Sudan ministers was held in Addis Ababa and Sodere, from April 30 to May 2.
From Addis Zemen May 31, 1993
The council Approved the Question of Infidelity Raised by the People
The establishing conference for Endemehoni District council in the Tigray Region approved the question of infidelity raised by the people on Mr. Solomon Tesfaye who was the MP representing TPLF.
The establishing conference which raised the question of lifting Mr. Solomon Tesfaye from his position of MP was approved yesterday on the basis of ruses and regulations of National Election Board, that is on the document 15 thousand people signed and presented..
The Southern Zone office of Election Board on its part disclosed that the legislation states that if the people lose faith in the elected member, it has the right to lift the individual from his post..
The decision of the establishing conference on Mr. Solomon Tesfaye would be operational when the National Election Board approves, the Zonal election board explained..
It's known that Mr. Solomon Tesfaye his served in the central committee of TPLF and recently has been among the defected group.    .
From Addis Zemen May 10, 2001.
The Outburst of Violence in East Congo is Feared to Bring About an All-out clan clash..
The Congo Democratic Republic disclosed that it controlled the northeastern town, Asiro, after having fought with Ugandan regular soldiers who crossed the border to seize the area..
The Ugandan government ruled out this allegation although foreign news agencies reported that Asiro town was controlled by the rebel group which is led by Tutsi Banyamulunge who wanted to oust President Kabila..
In another news, BBC reported on September 22 that the former Mobut soldier and those from Hutu clan who are now dispersed at different areas in the bushes attacked the Tutsis on the morning of September 21 at their strong occupancy, Goman..
25 civilians were killed in the violence though the fight has now ceased temporarily.  .
These ex-Hutu soldiers attacked the Tutsi rebels in he same town 11 days before and they were sent out, BBC reported.
While nothing has been official as to whether the Hutu joined the combat with the government's consultation, the Hutu have began struggling so as not to enable the Tutsi rebels control Congo.
On the other hand, since some of the Hutus who now started fighting in Congo would cross Uganda and Rwandan border to commit terrorist attacks, Ugandan and Rwandan governments wouldn't stay calm, for the former would become an obstacle to Tutsi Rebels, giving way to costly combat between Tutsi and Hutu pervading the area, political observers stated.    .
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
Higher Dergue Generals were Suddenly Release.
Members of Ethiopian Air Force and Ground Force Dergue higher commander-in-chiefs were released on the day before yesterday on August 25, 1999.
Close sources reported to Fiameta that they were suddenly realeased from their imprisonment.
After having imprisoned for seven years, not only was known as who commander their release or why they were released, but also the situation was sudden and unexpected.
The order they received was, "Today you won't spend the right here."
It's to be recalled that starting from the local officers up to higher ranked commander-in-chiefs were imprisoned at kaliti prison.
Although we couldn't know the names of all the released officers up to the time this news was organized and we entered for publication, the former southern Army Division Commander-in-chief, General Kinfe Gabriel and 15 other former officers were said to be released.
While it was not possible to know in detail about the number of officers in Kaliti prison, there were twenty-one Air Force members who were said to be prisoners, and three Generals in Alem Bekgagn Kerchelle prison.
Names lists and the place where they were imprisoned are presented in an overall report here.
1. Lieutenant Jelcha, Lieutenant Mekuanent Made, Lieutenant Asnake (nick named 'Shimaglew',         which literally means 'the oldie', Lieutenant Getenet, Lieutenant Mered – US America
2. Colonel Nebiyou, Captain Belayneh Tegegn, Lieutenant Simeneh Tigegn, Saudi Arabia
3. Captain Sintayehuy (Scandinavian Countries)
4. Captain Iyasu (Europe)
5. Colonel Wagari Gemechu, Colonel Mengesha Hunde, Lientenenant Dawit, Wondiyferaw              Ugendu, are found. (Source: - Ethiop Mahezine)
Those who rejoined the army
1. Colonel Abebe Wubshet
2. Major Bahru who returned from Uganda and was (sacrificed).
3. Captain Eshetu – from Addis Ababa
Those who were imprisoned at Kerchele
1. Major General Alemayehu Agonafer – Air Force commander-in-chief
2. Brigadier General Haile Michael Biru – used to be a commande.
3. Brigadier General Mesfin Haile, are found.
Those who were imprisoned at Kaliti
1. Brigadier General Teshale Zewdie
2. Colonel Berhanu Kebede
3. Colonel Tilahun Nebiyou
4. Colonel Asrat Tekalegn
5. Colonel Berhanu wubneh
6. Colonel Tegneh Haile Ghiorgis
7. Colonel Teka
8. Colonel Gezaw Derib.
9. Colonel BerhaneMeskel Haile
10. Colonel Bekele Zegeye
11. Colonel Admekew Mamo
12. Colonel Lema Tekalegn
13. Colonel Ambachew Wube
14. Colonel Lule Gebremedhin
15. L/Colonel Desalegn Mebratu
16. L/Colonel Gezahegn
17. Captain Getachew Maru
18. Captain Fisseha Melese
19. Captain Tilahun Bezabeh
20. Lieutenant Solomon Kifle
21. Lieutenant Abayneh are found..
From Fiameta August 25, 1999
The Establishment of Temporary Security Zone Couldn't be Effected Due to the Stand Eritrean Government and Delegates Took
The meeting held by Ethio-Eritrean Mission Military Integration with regards to the establishment of the temporary security zone couldn't be effected due to the stand Eritrea government and delegates' took, United Nations mission for Ethio-Eritrea, the Ethiopian bureau disclosed.
According to the coordinating bureau's disclosure, in the meeting held yesterday in Nairobi and led by Major General Patrick Kamart Commander of United Nations Mission for Ethio-Eritrea in the seventh meeting of the military Integration commission, it was believed that the establishment of the temporary Security zone once and for all would get finality.
It was to be recalled that the Ethio-Eritrean mission presented a map that shows the temporary security zone southern and northern borders to both sides at the end of last week, on June 22 and 23, 2001.
The Eritrean government hasn't made clear its suggestions while the Ethiopian government asked for amendment especially on the mistakes seen on two areas, Bure direction, and southern line and Irob direction northern line.
In the meeting, the Eritrea delegates expressed that they generally don't accept what was in the map regarding the southern security zone line and pointed out it would recently make its response official.
The other main thing that was seen in the meeting referred to the Eritrean police and militia that was engaged in the temporary security zone and Eritrea was asked to reduce the number at least the total number she had had before the war and clearly indicate its figure, it disclosed.
Regarding this force, it stated that it's just because the Eritrean delegation met shortage of recruits but otherwise they would have included additional police and militia, and by doing so, gave deaf ears to the international community, it disclosed.
On the other hand, the Eritrean delegates rejected the proposition the melting forwarded to form a subcommittee of military integration commission that would control and investigate issues being in the place the pressure Eritrean police and militia would have in the southern security zone lines, it said.
The importance of this establishment of zonal military Integration Commission was thought to resolve the ongoing problem of the region and put in place an even previously believed by the secretary General of the United Nations, who presented to the Security Council before the peace keeping force came operational, the report reminded.
According to the report's disclosure the other issue raised in the meeting was enabling the peace keeping force free movement according to the Algiers' agreement, Article 13.
The peace keeping force mentioned that it couldn't carry out the entrusted responsibility of controlling the region in and around the security zones, due to problems and the side of Eritrea..
It's reflected that although the Eritrean delegates were asked to urgently resolve the problem by the commander in-chief of the army, it could be judged from Eritrea's previous deeds that its preparedness on the side of them is minimal, it said.
The commander-in chief said he didn't face such difficulties regarding this on Ethiopian side, the coordinating office pointed out, and the Ethiopian delegation promised to stand beside them, making greater efforts to enable them work in the forth coming times.    .
From Addis Zemen June 28, 2001
Id Tahir Would Get its Final Due
The Frontiers are disturbed by Clan Politics and Oppositions -- Except one region development weakened.
In eastern Ethiopia Somalia and Afar regions, south eastern Bale areas, Gambela region, Benshanul Gumuz region up to regions in the northwestern border are disturbed by clan politics and the activities of the oppositions, while in Tigray sincepower was held in clan criterion and efficient people are not there for development, the proess of development is found in a weakened condition.
Two big Fronts found in north western area claiming that the peaceful political dialogue has been closed by EPRDF, made it official that they started armed struggle.
The first front is EDFC which lost mainly of its EPRP members, organization of Benshangul Gumuz, the Ethiopian United Front (EUF) which one of Kefagn Patriots' Fronts established. .
The other front is "Ethiopian Democratic Unity of Patriots' united Front that was established by one team of Medhin's party, one wing of Benshangul, one wing of Kefagn, Ethiopian patriots' front and Gathering Ethiopia Organization united their fronts.
Both fronts made official in their programs that they struggle for clan-free national politics.
Why didn't they unite.
This question is still not answered.
The fronts have started releasing victory statement..
But on the side of the government, there has been no official statement except carrying out military activities around the area.
On the other hand, Afar and Gambella leaders are being changed now and then in a peace and democracy conference.
Although budget is said to have been allocated from the central government, no tangible development is being carried out.
The Somali region which has for long been getting used to gun fires, the political crisis has relapsed recently.
Since the attempted coup de tat that was carried out on September 25, 1998 by his deputy Mr. Mahidi Ayub Guled, against the president Id Tahir Farah was said to have violated the constitution and failed by the central government intervention, the regional council to conduct a consultation on the matter would meet tomorrow for its 2nd urgent session, it was disclosed.   .
Id Tahir, who is said to have the support of the Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and chairman of Ethiopian Somali Democratic League, Dr. Abdulmejid, on the morrow of the ailed coup, on September 30, 1998 ousted 5 officials from his political oppositions, inclusive of the police commissions, Mr. Yunis Abdulahi, it was officially disclosed.
The cause for the dismissal of the police commissioner as stated by the president was he illegally imprisoned people using his power and despite the last warning given to him last year he couldn't improve his deeds.
Although Id Tahir said this, in the statement he gave in the evening of the same date regarding the coup, the police force who were ordered by the commission were waiting attentively to assassinate the president in his car, but wrongly fired on the vehicle of the defense army, which, in other words, made it clear the cause for his dismissal from job.
Dr. Abdul Mejid in his explanation stated the reshuffling, based on the regional constitution, the meeting had to be called by the president or by the person whom he represented, and yet the League wouldn't pressurize to make the president stay in power unless he has popular support, but it opposes the illegal measure that was taken.
In this reshuffling that was said to have taken place without the 31 executive committee members, including the president, where 2/3 (21) members were not present and with a meeting held by only 16 individuals, the League held a meeting in the regions capital Jijiga town, on October 4, 1991 to take a standpoint on it.
While we didn't include in this report the standpoint the League took on the issue for it didn't reach for publication, from the perspective of the intervention of the central government in this issue and from Dr. AbdulMejid's statement, they are expected not to accept the opposition's stand for the council's falling apart is also the league's weakness.   .
Nevertheless, since the council that constitutes most of the members of ESDL, doesn't trust one another and is full of contradictions, the amendment measure that are expected to be taken by the League may restore it for a short time, the reshuffling the president had started, especially his act of transferring old-timer teachers who are said to have been highly active to the sub-regions, would provoke more his opposition, it was told.
The deputy president Mahidi Ayub who attempted the coup being an enemy to Id Tahir, has gotten a rough relationship with the latter since he led the peace and democracy conference held in Degehabur, internal sources disclosed, would be expected to give an explanation about the measure he had taken to get the majority vote, in the 2nd urgent session of the council that is expected to be held in Jijiga town for four days starting tomorrow.
In this meeting where all members of he council of the nine zones are said to participate, it's disclosed that the ex deputy president Abdulahi Hassen and his secretary Ahmed Ibrahim, who were members of the executive committee, members who have now and them been ousted from their powers in pretexts of not carrying out their responsibilities, gave priorities to their benefit rather than to the people', were all not expected to become simple enemies.          .
Although the League had expressed through its chairman that as the ousted executive committee members accepted their faults and the evaluation was conducted in their presence and hence, it would respect the decision, it didn't say anything about those 72 officials at different level who have been ousted this year alone without including these ones, and without their presence, as it stood for Id Tahir, showed favoritism in sources pointed out.
Unless the discords in the council get resolved soon, together with the instable security of the region would transform the situation in to a worsened level, and the session that was to be held in October 8, 1998 would remain splitting headache to Dr. Abdulmejid and the federal government, observers stated.  .
In order to control the tendency that occurred in 1995 in the Somali region, the central government united the Democratic Action League, Ethiopia Gobiye Democratic organization, Ethiopian Somali Democratic Front, Gurgura Liberation Front, Horial Democratic Party and Esa and Gurgura Liberation Front and together formed the pro-EPRDF, Ethiopian Somali Democratic League, it's to be recalled.
In relation to the establishment of the league the former president flassen jire Kalinle and his deputy Ahmed Ali stepped down form their power and were made to be arrested, while in their place Abdurahman Abdikeni and Ahmed Mekahil Hussien were replaced.
This operation itself, after having traveled for sometime, due to the prevailing political unrest, and during the 1995 regional election which was postponed from May to June out of the 139 seats the regional council have the Ethiopian Somali Democratic League got 76, while Ogaden National Liberation Front, 31 west Somali Liberation Front, got 11 seats, for which case ESDL got the majority seat and Id Tahir, president, Abdulahi Hassen, Deputy and Ibrahim was elected secretary of the council, it was to be recalled.
These clan elites who organized themselves in parties and fronts and who claim to have stood for the people have contributed nothing in terms of changing the poor living condition of the people.
In fact, the living standards of the people have transformed to abysmal poverty from time to time, some observers said.
From Tobia October 9, 1997
Eritrea's Port was Not Affected by Ethiopian Sanctions
It was reported that Mitsewa's Port, Eritrea's main port General Manager, Araya Tsegaye told Reuters on June 17 that the port was unaffected and in fact would plant new equipment and renovate Mitsewa and Asab ports with the 57 million dollar that is to be given by World Bank..
However, he declined to comment as to how much is allocated to the two ports which need renovation of equipment, road and other building services.
Ayte Tsegaye said that Mitsewa Port for ears had been given merely Military services for Ethiopia and since Eritrea got her independence in 1993, gradually changed in to a fully trade center..
"No one considered to make it modern.
The service-giving equipment of the port was on the verge of obsolescence..
The infrastructure was highly damaged and almost nothing was functional..
So, we had to start from scratch," said Tsegaye.
Tsegaye also stated that before the conflict surfaced between the two ex-friendly nations, Ethiopia, more than any other nations, used to store her goods for a long time without any service payment, he never thought they will reach such a stage.
Reuter's reporter Manoh Esipew quoting city officials asserted that although there's a fight between Eritrea and Ethiopia within 70 kms radius from Asab, trade transactions were going on as usual..
Ayte Tsegaye told stated that although Ethiopian ships or ships that carry Ethiopian cargo all of a sudden were made to turn their direction away from Asab and Mitsewa, and advance to Djibouti, it has brought no damage on their economy, and meanwhile, northern transport fare is said to increased by 3 fold especially for Ethiopians whose goods used to come through Metsewa..
Ayte Tsegaye also stated that out of the total load Ethiopia imports, 15% of it used to come through Mitsewa while more than 50% comes through Asab..
In 1991, it was only 500,000 tons, last years it grew to 800,000 tons, but this year it was expected to rise 900,000 tons..
The fact that last year the amount of goods that Ethiopia imports through Mitsewa was 119,000 tons, which was higher than the 83,000 tons in April, show that the port could go well with out Ethiopia, Ayte Tsegaye said.
On average, 3 to 4 ships per day arrive in Mitsewa,the cargoes mostly contain cereals, agricultural equipment, industrial, and construction and trade goods..
Tsegay didn't want to comment on the loss that incurred as a result of Ethiopian sanction..
However, he expressed his regrets by saying "If they thought that the port of Mitsewa would close just because their ship does not use it, they are very much mistaken".              .
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
Netherlands and Canadian Soldiers Completed their duties, Indian Soldiers Started Their Wor.
The Netherlands and Canadian peace keeping forces who were engaged in United Nations Mission for Ethiopia an Eritrea, completed their duties and pass over their responsibilities to the Indian Soldiers who substitute them, Netherlands embassy in Ethiopia disclosed.
In a disclosure the Embassy made yesterday, the commander-chief of Netherlands and Canadian Battalion, Lieutenant colonel Ton Van Ede, who's Netherlands by citizenship; hand over the mission's central wing at Adigrat town last Monday to the Indian colonel Sanker.   .
The Indian soldiers, who substituted the Netherlands and Canadian Peace keeping forces who completed their six months' duties, started their duties as of Tuesday midnight, it disclosed.
The Netherlands and Canadian peace-keeping force were the first batch of soldiers since last December who completed their duties, although the temporary security zone was formed last April, the soldier were carrying out their duties even before hand without a hitch, it disclosed.    .
They were able to carry out their duties due to the cooperation of the Ethiopian Civil and military commanders, the embassy explained.
The Netherland soldiers who are prepared to leave the region are about 1,100, it also disclosed..
From Addis Zemen June 14, 2001
Germany Cancelled the Aid Agreement Dialogue!
Germany Economic Cooperation and Development ministerial office released a statement from Bon on June 19 that the more then 10 million mark aid-offering agreement that was about to be signed with Ethiopia has been cancelled due to the border conflict with Eritrea.
The spokesperson of the organization expressed that unless this country which is found in the horn of Africa, resolve her disputes with her neighboring countries through peaceful means, Bon won't have a dialogue again.
Germany gave 160 million marks in 1997 while this year's plan was a little less than the previous year, where as with Eritrea, no aid-agreement has been signed.
Since Bon started economic aid program for overseas in the 1960's the aid to Ethiopia has reached 1.9 billion marks..
Although peace talks have started to resolve Ethiopian and Eritrean border disputes through peaceful means, the two countries have different positions on the peace initiatives proposed by United States of America and Rwanda, the statement from Bon said, quoting close diplomats.
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
The Court of Bahren Postponed Yeshiwork's Appointment
The Bahren court which was viewing the case of miss Yeshiwork Desta who was accused of killing her employee and his been under arrest, postponed its appointment to September 18, 2002 the Embassy of Ethiopic in Kuwait disclosed. .
The ministry of foreign affairs quoting the embassy yesterday expressed that the court believed that she take psychiatric examination with a chosen translator and the result presented so that it would be able to give the decision, so for the court believed enough time is needed and postponed the appointment date..
The Minister disclosed that after the appointment date was fixed an Ethiopian who knows better Arabic was selected and discussed with the lawyer on whatever things to be done..
Addis Zemen May 31, 2001  .
"The Proclamation doesn't refer to those who chose Eritrean Citizenship" .
"The proclamation that was drafted by the ministry of Foreign Affairs entitled, Enabling Ethiopian-born Foreigners to benefit from various privileges of their native country" was approved by the council of ministers; presented to the council of peoples' representative on Thursday, January 9, 2002 and was referred to the legislative standing committee..
This proclamation that was divided in to three parts eighteen articles, details about the benefits of rights that could be gotten from being born in Ethiopia but took other citizenship and those who were not born in Ethiopia but either their parents or grandparents, or great grandparents, one of whom had Ethiopian citizenship, the draft proclamation described.
In part one of the proclamation article two sub article one it translates them meaning, "Ethiopian born foreigner" doesn't refer to those who took citizenship of Eritrea, it clearly indicated that.
However, in the proclamation there is not only a gap in the written statement of clarification the ministry of Foreign Affairs prepared, but it obviously indicated that the Eritreans would be beneficiaries of the opportunity.
Article 2 sub-article 1 of the draft proclamation that translates "Ethiopian-born foreigner" reads as follows.
"1. Ethiopian-born foreigner means an individual who had had Ethiopian citizenship before he/she had other country's citizenship or a foreigner whose parents, grandparents or great grandparents, at least one of them at any time had Ethiopian citizenship, but it doesn't include those individuals who left Ethiopian citizenship and chose Eritrean citizenship," it said.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave an explanation regarding this sup article and it said as follows.
"...As it is known since Eritreans changed their citizenship due to their secession from Ethiopia an establish their own country, and since giving them the prerogative to the various rights and benefits refer to the overall people of the country, assigning this meaning to them is not appropriate.
The experience of India not to include Pakistanis and people of Bangladesh who used to be her own bodies, explained the same thing; there fore, these people are clearly exclusive in the execution of the proclamation," strengthened the sanction and then, it opened a door for them with an adjective, "However"..
"However, it must be proved that Eritrean-born Eritreans had chosen Eritrean citizenship to lose his/her Ethiopian citizenship.
Moreover, Eritrean-born individuals who didn't take Eritrean citizenship but took other country citizenship could be said in the proclamation Ethiopian-born," it said; for the question raised by MPs as to why didn't it say those who participated in the referendum, the house speaker Dawit Yohannes argued the issuance of referendum is not related with citizenship.
Observers criticized that this explanation indicated that there was an interest in benefiting Eritreans in the proclamation.
All Eritreans who participated in the Eritrean referendum, since they have temporary identity cards from the outset, according to the legislation decreed in 2000, and still today practical proclamation of citizenship, they lose their Ethiopian ness; since this should that all Eritrean citizens leaving Ethiopian citizenship and chose Eritrean citizenship are clearly implicated here; leaving aside this clear legislation of the country, the ministry of Foreign Affairs, gave a statement that said, "However, it should be proved that the Eritrean had chosen Eritrean citizenship to lose Ethiopian Citizenship," which may give a green light for those Eritrean business people who were sunken after the Ethio-Eritrean conflict to regain control the business, there is a worry.
It would also give a chance for foreigners to involve in banks and the like which are forbidden for them, and it would make the screening of Eritrean citizens difficult for there's no list in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of those who took part in the Eritrean referendum.
At the time the draft proclamation was referred to the council of peoples' representative, the sentence that says if one of the spouses is Ethiopian and the other a foreigner, the later would be given identity and even if he/she is not Ethiopian, had been questioned.
This has also raised an opposition claiming that it would pave a conducive situation for evicted Eritreans.
Although what initiated this statement, was said to be the questions the Eriteans who were said to have come from abroad raised to the government officials in Hilton Hotel, from the perspective of the urgency and the gap the proclamation opened, it seemed to benefit the Eritrean business community, there are some who claim this.
The people whom this draft proclamation refers to, apart form being forbidden to work in defense, security and foreign affairs, as well as robbing off their rights to vote, or to be elected, they would be beneficiaries of all other privileges a citizen has; they would be given identity cards to show that they are beneficiaries of these prerogatives.
This draft proclamation is expected to be approved by the council soon after the Legislative issues, Defense and foreign affair standing committees see to it..
From Ethiop January 23, 2002
"General Gawena is to be Accused"
Fenote Democracy, the voice of EPRP, relayed the following message.
As it was repeatedly expressed in the TPLF regime there's no situation where embezzlement was not rife.
Above all, it's doubtful to get someone innocent in the ministry as big as defense ministry.
The sources that reached us from the defense ministry recently explained that the accounts of the organization was attempted to be audited by external auditors.
In these accounts documents where the income and expense were completely unmatched, the strict investigation conducted showed at least 200 million Birr missing.
This missing money was found only by documents that were found in the proper income and expense voucher, but if the money that was missing is calculated in terms of money that was expended without registering it as income or expense, it could have been much more, the sources disclosed.
As Defense Ministry is the highest institution in the country, it would get budgets in millions.
The organization, in which the allocation of budget is in billions every year, collects a lot of money by allocating many fund-raising under it.
Among these, the officers' club, where many expatriate and government officials entertain and the Golf club, the army shops and entertainment houses that are found in every division or army unit, the fuel transport trucks for ministry offices and other heavy frocks for rent as well as ... the income from dry load transporting company has no controller; auditors have never seen them.
Moreover, the money in millions collected from people in the pretext of organizing the army was not known for what purpose it went, no body asked them.
There won't be anyone.
The places which are suspected of these are commander-in-chief of the army, Administration and security of Ministry of Defense, organizational or Logistics Department, Engineering department, Ground Force Finance and Agitation Department as well as Air Force are the ones to be mentioned, the sources disclosed.
The individuals who can be considered accountable for the embezzlement conducted earlier, General Abebe Teklehaimanot and Commander-in-chief of the army, Tsadkan Gebre Tensay were retired.
The one department which could be accountable more, its head General Alemshet Degfe has now become Commander-in-chief of the Air Force.
One officer who's suspected as the forerunner of this embezzlement has been changed to a civilian.
Since the present officials of the defense ministry directly or indirectly are not in disagreement with Meles were appointed, regardless of their malfunction.
Among the former defense officials who didn't want to share to Meles and others, the head of educational administrative department, General Tadesse Berhe was not allowed to take his retirement, but was ousted from the army and now he's going to be charged in relation to the purchasing of ammunition during the war with Siye Abrha, the information our sources sent point out.
In general, as has been pointed out repeatedly earlier, as the anticorruption campaign of Meles Zenawi focused on political benefit, rather than economic ones, the officials who were imprisoned up to now and the ones who would be taken into custody would be related to the case of Siye Abrha and others who stood in opposition to Meles, most people came to believe this from the suggestions given."
It reported.
From Satenaw, January 14, 2002 .
The Mutual Forum Assembly for Political Parties was postponed to Monday.
The mutual forum Assembly for electoral candidates of political parties that was to be conducted in the coming Friday was postponed to Monday, Ethiopian selecoral board disclosed.
The board disclosed yesterday that the mutual forum Assembly was postponed due to the coming consecutive holidays.
Therefore, the Mutual Forum Assembly for political parties would be conducted on the coming Monday May 1, 2005 starting at two o'clock in the afternoon at the meeting hall of the office of the board. .
The board reminded that members of the mutual forum parties should send their representatives and perforate in the meeting..
It also pointed out that the board chairman and responsible persons of the office would give press statement to foreign and local Medias regarding the activities of the election.
From Addis Zemen April 28, 2005
Immigration Office Took Measures on Foreigners Who were Found Illegal, It was Disclosed..
Ethiopian Immigration Office disclosed that imposed a total of 80,800 Birr levy on foreigners who were found illegal..
Those foreigners whom imposition were laid upon were the ones found entering through illegal borders, and whose visas or residence permission is not renewed, the top official of the organization, Mr. Gezachew Adane informed.
The report also stated that last year his office gave passports and visa for 1.45 million Ethiopians..
Stating the need for amendment of immigration laws that have been in use for over 30 years, he said in order to update the law and make it applicable to the present time, a panel consisting of five experts is conducting a sturdy..
If the study went according to plan, it would complete next year around February, he also mentioned..
On the other hand, the borderlines are so wide along various frontiers of the neighboring countries that it is not conducive to manage and control the infiltration, the situation is, hence, there are as many cases where people are seen coming into or going out freely other than through the frontier toll stations..
Especially people with lots of money, after reaching the border, would give a good amount of money to the area officials, and go out of or get into the country without being noticed by immigration workers, the people who know the areas spoke with regret.  .
The presence of toll stations would serve best to control the people who go out of and get into the country if the borderline is only one and the rest were topographical impediments..
In particular, the districts around the border between Ethiopia and Somalia as well as between Kenya and Sudan are free for anyone to enter from any side, so, the toll stations serve only those who abide by the law, said the people who know the areas..
Related to the illegal infiltration of people of people in and out of the country, are the valuable resources and cash crops which could serve the country earn hard currency such as gold, coffee, incense and ‘chat' that are sold cheap in bulk in the neighboring countries, being a good means of getting foreign exchange to them..
Northern Somalia or Somaliland Republic which is famous in the world for its export of Camel and horned cattle to Arab countries gets hard currency in return as a result of the illegal trade of these animals which go from Ethiopia, it was indicated..
Unless appropriate control and management are put in place after passing and amending the law, there would be nothing that prohibits the flow of plentiful products which can bring in return a lot of hard currency to other countries, and infiltration of anti-Ethiopian as well as terrorist elements to the country; so alongside with the amendment and passing of the law, many believe that it would be wise and effective to consider the means of strengthening to border security. .
From Fiameta September 6, 1998
The Prosecutor was ordered to Give Suggestions on Professor Mesfin's Case
The Federal High Court ordered the prosecutor to give suggestions on the requested additional date and granting of bail, and held another appointment for the case of Professor Mesfin Woldemariam and Dr. Berhanu Nega who were accused of agitating students for riot.
The fifth Criminal tribunal gave another appointment to see the case of the accused two individuals who were said to gather Addis Ababa University students and agitated to instigate opposition based on the application the EFDR Investigation Coordination Department put forward saying that it didn't complete its investigation and asked for 14 additional days..
The Investigation and Coordination Department presenting various written statements and documents, applied to the court that when the search of the residence of the accused individuals was made through the order of the court these were unknown cassettes an computer disks whose investigations have not yet been completed, so the present it to the court after the investigation is complete, it needs additional days, it disclosed..
The department disclosed that it found a document about program of a political organization which is not known as to whether it may or may not be operating legally, and needed time to present to the court session after clearing up..
In addition, the department disclosed to the court it hasn't yet captured individuals who are suspected as having relations with the accused..
The defendant lawyers of the accused on their part explained that since investigation center has already disclosed that through the court's order it had previously claimed to have searched and found documents of papers, cassettes, and computer disks form the residences of the accused individuals and office of EHRF, they asked the court for the accused rights to be released on bail to be respected..
The defendant lawyers also asked the court to rule out the investigation center's request for additional day for it can not be believed that the accused individuals would be engaged in dismissing documents away form their teaching and engaging in research works..
The court, after investigating the appeal presented by the investigation department and the defendant lawyers, held another appointment ordering the prosecutors to give its suggestions..
From Addis Zemen May 19, 2001.
Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam had Suddenly Disappeared His Where about is not known
It's to be recalled that the former Ethiopian president colonel Mengistu Hailemariam left Ethiopia on May 21, 1991 and started living in Zimbabwe, and recently there was a plan for him to transfer from his villa at Gunhell to the newly prepared and highly secured residence at Garvin close.    .
The recently published Ethio-News newsletter in its 3rd No. 3 edition reported that colonel Mengistu suddenly suddenly disappeared from Harare; although there's no official report so far as to where he went, it was expected that he might have gone to the refugee residence arranged for him formerly in North Korea..
Since Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam arrived in Zimbabwe, his full accommodation expense and, especially, telephone bills have been paid by the government of Zimbabwe, which brought about different criticism, it's to be recalled..
As we, followed and reported the situation in Fiameta newspaper before, we have pointed out that president Mugabee was gave political refugee for colonel Mengistu Hailemariam since 1991, has been unable to control his political moves for the last few months, and to protect colonel Mengistu Hailemariam if difficult situations are created in Harare he has been discussing the matter with different countries.
Among these he asked North Korea for the colonel's refugee as she was a good ally of Ethiopia during the 17 years of colonel Mengistu's reign..
Colonel Mengistu was in a situation were he was ready waiting to urgently go any time to North Korea.
The sudden disappearance of Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam from Harare has become controversial, and except suspecting that he might have gone to the previously arranged place of North Korean, it hasn't been known as to where he went.
It's to be recalled that the North Korean Embassy in Addis Ababa previously denied that the country didn't give refugee for Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam..
Where could colonel Mengistu go? It is expected that the answer to this question could only be given by Zimbabwe's president Mugabe..
The crime of genocide colonel mengistu Hailemariam was claimed to have committed while he was in power is currently been viewed in absentia in Addis Ababa Court, and the case was going to seen in the court again in the coming September, 1999.
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
288 Million Dollars was Written off from Ethiopia's Debt.
288,100 dollars was written off from Ethiopia's foreign debt, Ethiopian embassy in France disclosed.
The embassy as it disclosed yesterday to ENA, out of the 430 million dollar Ethiopia was supposed to pay up to March 31, 2004, the written off debt constituted 67%.  .
The agreement was reached after the International Monetary Fund (IMF) passed a decision recently supporting the poverty reduction program.
These lending countries who signed the writing off & rounding off agreement with Ethiopia are found among the developed nations of the group named the Paris club.
At this occasion, the minister of Finance, Mr. Sufian Ahmed who is the leader of the Ethiopian delegates, mentioned that the lending countries took the measure supporting the development policy Ethiopia designed, and the money that was supposed to be paid would be expended on the economic and social development, the embassy disclosed.
It was pointed out that French, British, Sweden, United States, Russia, Japan, Italy, Finland, Germany and Belgium delegates participated..
In a message they relayed in the meeting, the International Monetary Fund, (IMF) African Development bank an United Nations commission for Trade and Development (UNCTAD) they assured they would stand beside Ethiopia in her effort to reduce poverty..
It is to be recalled that the Paris Club countries similarly signed an agreement to write off Ethiopia's debt in 1992 and 1997..
From Addis Zemen April 7, 2001
The Discovered Tablet of Wood Brought About Trouble
Bishop Aregaw's Church was Trouble.
The bishop TekleHaimanot tablet of wood that was said to be found in our city, at Zenebework around ALERT hospital, created a lot of trouble that had lived long.
The tablet of wood was discovered in 1998, on December 25; through the cooperation of district 23 police station, the matter was made to reach office of the clergy, and the latter arranged the tablet's stay at Bishob Aragawi church at Zenebework.
The then General administrator of the church Melake Tsion Aba Wolde Hawariat Demisse (Koms) wrote a letter to the assistant administrator of the church ordering that the tablet of wood (Tablet of the Law) should be placed cautiously.
In our effort to investigate the matter.
However, Melaketsion Aba Hawariat Demissie was made to be dismissed from his positions, and in his place, Aba GebreKidan Gebrehewot troubled the administrator claiming "the owners of the stolen tablet of wood came, and, so let it be given to them" illegally trying to give it back, as a result of which the people were troubled for long, internal sources explained.
People asked to take the tablet of wood claiming that "It belongs to Maichew Debre Tsige Teklehaimanot" and asked to produce evidence that proved it to be theirs they said the tablet of wood has an inscription carved on it "Ze Tabot Ze Debretsige Maichew TekleHaimanot", and particularly one of them gave his word that he had said the mass in this tablet of wood in 1973 and 1974; but the said inscription was not found and the tablet of wood was inscribed in 1979, internal sources disclosed.
The administrator on his part said that at first he told the assistant repeatedly orally administrator that the people who claimed that it was theirs, gave false words that proved otherwise, and this created trouble among many; the church administrator took his annual leave, but suddenly came to the church on August 11, 1998 for a day, without completing their annual leave asked the assistant administrator "show me the tablet of wood" and saw it up side down and later went to those who say "we lost a tablet of wood, it's ours", seemed that he told them all the information that when they came back from the office of clergy they mentioned some real signs the tablet, internal sources disclose.
After this, leaving aside the order of the word of month, he wrote a letter a file number of which was D/K/A/106/14 '00 on November 4, 2000 ordering the deputy administrator of the church.
According to the order, the tablet of wood was able to be taken out of the church, but the problem it created was not as such easy.
Few laity of the surrounding area who saw the scene when the tablet of wood came out from the church on November 9, 2000 rang the church bell and called the people filling the church premise and shouted that the tablet shouldn't be taken from us, and if the real owner is found, people should be called and should be seen off with publication, not like this secretly, this made the tablet to be taken back to the church, they disclosed.
In related news, it was disclosed that due to an accusation charged against the church administrator claiming that he wasted the church, investigation committee was formed and started its function.
The administrator was filed many charges.
We'll disclose it after the result.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
Ethiopian Coffee and Saint George were Defeated and Disqualified from the knock out Competitio.
In Ethiopian knock out games conducted yesterday Berhanena Selam defeated Ethiopian Coffee 3 to1, Trans Ethiopia defeated Saint George 11 to 10 /in a penalty shoot out/.
In a Trans Vs Saint George game conducted at Addis Ababa Stadium, Fekadu Belay scored a goal for Saint George in the 18th second while sintayehu Getachew (koche) inserted the ball into the net, which he received from Tewdros (Bokande), and made his team lead 2 to 0.
Trans on their part coordinating their game scored their first goal at the 23rd minute by Tsegaye Girma..
The game was full of determination to win and colorful.
Tasew of Trans contributed greatly in serving good balls from the wing.
The game went animated and at the 42th minute Sintayehu Getachew scored the 3rd goal for his team and the 2nd for himself.
Trans who showed a lot of activities not to be excelled during the first half and after the 3rd goal was scored upon them by Sintayehu Getachew, in less than a minute's time, they passed over the ball to each other towards the goal area and scored the 2nd goal through the no-11, Ephrem Zeru, which completed the first fourty-five minutes.
Returning from recess with a score 3 to 2, Berhane of Trans cast the ball in to the net and made them equal.
Following that Haile (Tigana) of Trans thrust the ball into the net and Transe 4 to 2 started driving in the front seat.
Saint George on its part got a goal at the 75th minute that made them equal by Ashenafi Sisay who was changed by Fasil Tekalegn..
For Saint George, the attempt made by Sintayehu Getachew, Fekadu Belay and Mulualem Regasa getting in to the goal area were made ineffectual by the goal keeper.
Not more than three balls couldn't become goals for they went out on the top of the goal pole.
Since Trans got a lot of support from the people, too it could finish the game being 4 to 4 with Saint George..
In the penalty kick given to differentiate the winner, Trans won 7 to 6.
Therefore, Saint George was defeated by Trans 11 to 10 and disqualified from the knock out competition.
In a different game, Berhanena Selam got an unexpected victory over Ethiopian coffee – 3 to 1.
The precedence for goal was taken by Ethio-coffee through Michael Walelegne..
Michael is the team's star goal-scorer..
After four minutes, at the 24th minute Abebe Getachew scored the first goal that made Berhanena Selam equal, the balance of the game inclined to Berhanena Selam.
After this goal was scored Berhanena Selam repeatedly checked coffee's goal.
At the 48th minute Muluken Yohannes scored the second goal beautifully.
The 3rd and the winning goal was scored by Henok Abebe at the 64th minute and as a result, Berhanena Selam made coffee disqualified from the knock out cup game.
The games continue today and tomorrow at the Addis Ababa Stadium, it was disclosed..
From Ethio Sport February 4, 2002
Out of the 41 Commercial Bank Officials 6 of them were Arrested, 7 escaped.
In a charge the Anti-corruption commission pressed against 54 bank officials on January 8, 2002, those who are under control would appear today in the higher court that is situated at Lideta area.
With regards to this surprising and menacing accusation, we presented a wide coverage in a special edition of Medina newspaper that appeared on January 15, 2002.
Now, we brought you special reports of new developments in relation to the charges from our sources and our news reporters.
Although 41 officials were suspected and their names were presented to the court under the commission's file charges, we ideated in our special edition that only 26 were arrested.
This was because two of them died and the other 13 didn't appear to the court due to various reasons.
It was to be recalled in our report that out of the suspected thirteen merchants, Mr. Tedla Yizengaw was in Dubai, and Mr. Temesgen Mehari was in America, so they were not arrested.
The court had already ordered that police should bring all these suspects who were not arrested to the court on today's appointment or explain the legal reason why it couldn't bring them.
Based on this, police arrested 6 individuals last week, our sources explained.
The identity of these 6 individuals is as follows:
1. Mr. Said Yimer (Commercial Bank Head of Debt Evaluation).
2. Mr. Assefa Abshiro (Former D/president of the bank and who left the bank 2 years ago.
3. Mr. Alemayehu Haile Michael General Manager of the Mexico Region which leads eight          branch offices, under the bank's structure);
4. Mr. Abrham Aregawi (Four years ago, admin of branch offices);
5. Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye (who served as head of Debt Evaluation and was ejected from    the       position 9 years ago);
6. Mrs. Zellelash weyen Assefa (D/president of the Addis Ababa region since 2 years ago,    who      has been appointed in place of Mr. Assefa Abshiro)
The sources added that Mr. Assefa was hired by Nib Bank after he left the commercial bank.
Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye was working in Awash Bank, it was disclosed.
Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye said except reading from newspapers that he was included in Anti-corruption Commission's accusations, he didn't receive a subpoena, it was disclosed.
It was to be recalled that based on the Anti-corruption commission's charge Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye and Mr. Seid Yimer, having collaborated with other bank officials, were suspected to have given debt, illegally, 190 million Birr to star Business Group and Mina Trading, it was to be recalled.
In addition to this Mr. Seid were pressed charges on the 23 million Birr debt given to Abrham International Company.
In this debt, other than Mr. Seid 15 bank officials were accused, among whom the arrested Mr. Assefa Abshiro, Mr. Alemayehu Haile Michael and Mrs. Zellelash Weyen Assefa are to be found.
These are individuals who were also pressed charges on the 27 million debts given to Mr. Asnake Jembere, together with other 13 bank officials.
While Mr. Abrham Aregawi's name was mentioned among the list of suspected bank officials, it was not mentioned to which charges his case was related.
Although Mr. Seid, Mr. Assefa, Mr. Alemayehu Haile Michael and Mr. Abrham Aregawi appeared on the higher first criminal bench on January 14, as well as Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye, on January 29 Mrs. Wellelash Weyn on February 2, 2002 they were ordered to appear to the court of session today February 6, 2002 with the rest of the bank officials and merchants.
Based on this, the number of suspected bank officials who are arrested and found in Addis Ababa prison has increased to 32, our reporters disclosed to us.
Regarding the rest suspected bank officials, police is expected to present today death certificate of the two suspects from their district office.
With regards to the rest seven, although we were not able to know what the decision it passed, our sources explained that they are found overseas.
The seven bank officials left Ethiopia before and after they were told of the curt appointment (between January 1-3), it was disclosed.
From Medina February 5, 2002 .
The Protest Against the Patriarch is Mountin.
Since the protest against the patriarch of Ethiopian Orthodox church, Aba Paulos, from bishops, different officials of the clergy and the laity has been mounting, he is said to be in great trouble, internal sources disclosed;
The same sources informed that the previously arisen conflict was assumed to be instigated by non-Tigrean speakers, but by now the patriarch is at loggerheads with speakers of Tigrina who are officials of the clergy and the people of Tigray, too, and he's performing all the works of the church with Aba Gerima and his nephew Mr. Yared, they condemned him;
The people of Tigray dismissed Bishop Mekarios for they couldn't get along with him, while the patriarch ousted bishop Timothios who used to serve as Development Commission Commissioner for many years and transferred him to Tigray.
It was told that Aba Timothios didn't accept the transfer;
According to internal source information, the cause for the conflict between the Patriarch and Aba Timothios was that the development commission was asked to pay for the house rent it used, and because the patriarch, at different times, improperly requested for money.
The internal sources informed that up to now he took more than two million Birr (750 thousand of the car inclusive) form the commission, and since the now and then requests put forward to the commission by the patriarch couldn't get answers, he not only dismissed the manager but also scattered the development commission board altogether one of whom was bishop Gabriel, they pointed out;
It was told that the patriarch, other than the synod, works forming sub-synod that consisted of his friends, and in order to investigate the matter about bishop Mekarios who was dismissed by the question of the people of Tigray and other issues, the general manager of the church's development commission Mr. Tsegaye Berhe, the secretary, Mr. Wosenseged as well as brother of sibehat Nega, Mr. Belay Nega went to Tigray and talked to various members of the community.
It was possible to understand that the development commission not only substituted his supporters, but asked the government to give him workforce, the sources pointed out;
Aba Paulos who removed his opponents from the development commission not only substituted his supporters, but asked the government to give him workforce, the sources pointed out;
There are sides who say that the reason why patriarch couldn't succeed by what he does and why he repeatedly gets in to contradiction with others, is because he has a mental disorder;
In our attempt to investigate the problem in the clergy, an official of the clergy whose name wanted to be anonymous said that the Head of the development commission was Father promoted to a level of an archbishop of the National preaching but not ousted, and further explained that there's transfer in any work place and it should not be considered as wrong to see transfer exercised;
Responding to the question we raised with regards to the working procedure of the synod, he expressed that the synod is concerned with transfer of bishops, but regarding the control of department head, manager, different work sectors, it's what the patriarch does with his subordinate officials;
The financial spending of the church has been orderly and it is followed by the church and donors' auditors, and has legal procedures, so the patriarch cannot take money as he wished, and if anyone claims that money has been taken improperly, the situation would be investigated by auditors, making the givers as well as the takers accountable, the same official pointed out;
It is proper for the development commission to be asked for payment of house rent for the different institutions under the church are made to operate independently, and hence, it's legally appropriate to pay house rent.
The official said, "the development commission is not dismantled, perhaps it has substituted members for missing ones," and the team which was sent to Tigray had no special mission except investigating the problem, he explained.
From Tobia September 25, 1997
Uniformed Amharic Alphabet Usage Avoids Working Problems
If Uniformed Amharic Alphabet were prepared for computer users and service providers, it would help avoid the working problems they may encounter, it was disclosed..
Coordinator of the establishing committee for Ethiopian Computers Standard Association, Dr. Dawit Bekele, explained that preparing Amharic Alphabet chart avoids problems that could be faced during information exchange, preparation of research works and gathering of data..
In a statement he made to journalists during the meeting of the establishing committee for Ethiopian computer standard Association, Dr. Dawit explained that since the arrangements of Amharic key board is not compatible with the English ones, it would have an impact on workmanship, so establishing the association would help avoiding this problem..
Doctor Dawit uncovered that unless professionals of the sector, beneficiaries and service providers cooperatively agree and approve to prepare uniformed Amharic alphabet chart, the difficulty wouldn't be overcome..
On the other hand, since the working language of our country is Amharic, preparing the alphabet chart would have great advantage both for the beneficiaries as well as for service providers, he unveiled..
In Ethiopia one of the stumbling blocks for the widening of computer technology is the vacancy of this uniformed alphabet chart, said Doctor Dawit, and as to the gossip that there would be no computer after the year 2000, he underscored that this is simply incorrect and should not worry anyone in our country..
Dr. Demissa Gemeda, Associate Professor at AAU, in has speech doing the opening session of establishing Committee for Ethiopian computer standard Association, he said the establishment of the association is timely and it has oblong contribution for our country's development of information exchange.   .
From Addis Zemen August 27, 199.
In Tigray
The control over Eritreans has been Strengthene.
TPLF army took all the farm yields for itself by collaborating the area people in western Tigray Zone at place (where Tigray and Eritrea meet), North eastern reporter of Tobia disclosed.
The measure was taken passing the Mereb River at a location nearby Tigray, the reporter explained, and the harvest was taken away from them for they encountered opposioti from Tigren farmers before they planted the grain, but they went a head in a despotic manner, the reporter explained..
Although the farmers whom their property was taken disclosed the dispute to Eritrean government that was created in Kohay and Bademe area, the TPLF area, the TPLF army is still camping in the area after having gathered the harvest.
The TPLF army is said to have a stand that "As log as the Mereb river is the one that separates Tigray and Eritrea, it's always our land."
In the mean time, Eritreans living in Zalanbesa and its surroundings are forbidden to have what so ever belonging they have passed to Eritrea, but also are made to sell permanent properties, such as houses only to Tigreans. .
The TPLF soldiers who have ramped also forbidden things that go to Eritrea from central part of the country through Tigray.
A part from grains, nothing could go.
Because of this, Eucalyptus logs and the like things are returning from the border.
And the license of some business people, who are said to be the main supporters of EPLF owners of groceries, snack house and public houses are being snatched from them, it was disclosed.
On the other hand, the Eritrea Saho national members got in to Tigray and pillaged cattle and other properties while the Erobs of Tigray started getting in to Eritrea and killing people, bearing their grudges.
Behind the two sides, EPLF and TPLF forces are found confronting each other, the news we receive from the place explained.
Asked about the situation one Eritrean official believed that there's a problem but since shepherds are the ones who created, it won't be difficult.
The Eritrean government is at the moment being attacked by forces that oppose the regime and leaflets requesting the arrival of democracy are being scattered and stack on the wall around public squares, schools, and prayer houses, it was proved.
On the other hand, in Eritrea, at this time, theft, killing, circulation of hashish and raping females have become widening.
The Eritrean government is saying that the perpetrators of this act are Tigrean nationals.
EPLF is saying this to facilitate the eviction of Tigrean youth from Eritrea, observers expect.
Mereb River between Eritrea and Tigray had brought about war earlier with ELF, and at that time EPLF said it would give whatever land needed to TPLF so the question remained secretly unanswered.
At this time, the Eritrean government in western Barka district, military front had been opened against it, and it is concerned whether another front would be opened by the side of Tigreay.    .
Due to this, the Akale Guday district which was a meeting point with Tigray and, an area which didn't accept the new administrative division is said to be the seventh zone, on its own.
But according to observers, the measure, rather than being a remedy, would enable other small districts to maintain their earlier questions, creating a great administrative crisis to EPLF.
From Tobia October 30, 1997
Some Days!
The event took place in the capital Addis Ababa last few days..
After long years of stay a lovers, the opposite sexes are now prepared to get married, with extravaganza wedding..
The relatives of the spouses are looking forwards to their children's happiness..
The nears and dears have been busy here and there in the preparation.
As an indication for the proximity of the wedding's date, wedding songs are heard form one corner to another..
The drums are beaten by girls who gathered from the neighborhood..
Saturday, the eve of the wedding, the day when the spouses are at their climax ... when the traditional wedding song is heard loudly, now reverberating in the spouses mind..
On Sunday, the huge tent is planted ... in the microphone it's heard from afar, that song "my bride ... my bride ... my grape flower, don't worry my bride, the bride, the bridegroom is being awaited..
People have become restless..
But when all this happens, the bride is thinking deeply, when finally the "sad" news was heard that the bridegroom was arrested..
With other Eritrean spy's it was heard he as captured on Saturday eve..
The wedding extravaganza became spoiled.
"The groom" as the prison, enough food for lunch was brought to him from the extravaganza..
He, there, afar, she, here ... they were separated ... not to see each other anymore ....
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
Where is the Remedy?
While Ethiopia is known for many favorable characteristics, her early civilization, tourist attractiveness, ancient governorship, as of recently her name become illustrious for drought, famine, disease resulted from famine, etc.
It has become a common practice to look for aid from the rich countries in order to fill whenever we are hit by drought which is considered as an angel of death.
Since the end of the kingship regime the feet that our politics is mostly related with begging, aid and alms made the proud citizen shameful and taciturn.
This can not be denied.
As one writer expressed a year ago in this newspaper, for the last twenty-four years, the Aid and Rehabilitation Commissioner was more popular than the foreign secretary.
As one western journalist mocked, "you (Ethiopians) do not need a Foreign Secretary.
If any need arises, I think one sub-department under Aid and Rehabilitation Commission would suffice.
If you want to enter the political game like other countries, first of all you have to change your attitude towards famine.
It would be fit if your politics is termed as the politics of famine and disease," he said.
Just like the previous regimes this one also claims, "I'm concerned about Somalia, I'm worried about Rwanda, I have such and such plans," it said.
But when the news alone is mentioned about Ethiopian famine and victims of famine, it becomes a sin.
It seems a crime.
Due to these and related awareness problems, inefficiency of administrative and leadership, distribution of development and lack of justice, budget and economic allocation, basic poverty of knowledge and incompatibility of plans before actions, all these exposed our people to famine.
It is not God's fury.
Nor is it natural calamity.
As always, for the public's wretchedness the cause is the political order.
Two months ago, the former American President Jimi Carter visited the place where he was told as producing abundant yield, the Prime Minister being host of touring the area.
If not new for the two individuals the area has since long ago been very blessed by nature.
This government has added nothing to it.
Nor has it contributed thousands of tractors several hundred machines for cutting and gathering grain (combine harvesters).
Instead, since the current government, just like the former ones, doesn't come out of begging should have asked aid showing the victims of famine.
But that didn't happen.
Because government usually takes it for granted to beg in the pretext of poor citizens and victims of famine.
On the other hand, it has concluded that the problems of Ethiopia should have been resolved by foreign forces.
But what this people want to know is that are foreign governments accountable for the people's miserable condition or is it the one who sits as government officials in Addis who are responsible for it?
It's worrying to heat that five million people are exposed for famine.
The city people and those fellow people haven't become victims as yet would like to see it in its own eyes.
The victims are within the fenced barbed wire of five, either not to get in to immigrate to the neighboring countries..
Our fellow country people who used to be said "would spoil the city it wouldn't get into the capital for it would leave black point on the politics" is still having the same fate today.
Worst of all, in 1995 while the famine was a big concern for many fellow people, a statement was given, "The famine's not so dangerous as to risk human lives," proving the regime's heedlessness to its citizens' suffering.
The fellow people who are victims of famine are the products of poor leadership.
The problem that arose due to land distribution among farmers in Amhara region is to be recalled.
The source of the resulting difficulty is there fore poor administration and its policy the in human regime and its stand.
Even then, temporarily at least, the rest of the world and its brothers should come to its rescue and save him.
However, the lasting and only solution is the democratic and public order itself builds and should actively involve in this direction believing in it..
From Tobia October 16, 1997
Ethiopia – Quarrelsome?
The Sanction Applied on Sudan would Collaborate the Arab World Even Better
From reporter of Tobia (Washington DC.
The sanction no Sudan which was orchestrated by the newly appointed African Affairs Deputy Minister, Mrs. Suzan Rice, and which was to apply on Sudan as from the beginning of last week, would collaborate the Arab camp even better and would make Sudan headstrong to be a safe haven for strengthening opposition forces, the not-so-few Arab diplomats of United Nation members disclosed.
Senator John Ashkroft, the Senate Foreign Affairs sub-committee chairman, saying "a policy that's acceptable" the sanction that President Clinton ordered in his signature, approved and after that strongly praised in the ministry of Foreign Affairs, Deputy African Desk Minister Suzan Rice who was appointed in place of Mr. Robet Mus for her efficiency in this task;
At the beginning of last week, President Clinton not only imposed all kinds of American investment sanctions but also ordered to stop most of the bilateral business transactions.
According to the disclosure of higher officials this kind of measure was taken on Sudan because she hasn't stopped international terrorism and human rights violation.
The measure of Clinton seems that of the stands shown by his country on Iran, Burma and Cuba.
The Sudan government on its part retaliated on its part (Nov. 5, 1997), it was disclosed that America had 70 million dollar business relations per year with Sudan.
Sudan is the main gum supplier (          ) to America. .
Spokesperson of State Department, James Rubin explained that there's no interest to discontinue diplomatic relations with Sudan.
There was no need to push up to the end the plan that was designed last month to return American diplomats to Sudan.
Among the Islamic states Iran, Iraq and Sudan as well as Libya being victims of the attack of administration would let most members of Islamic State Association continue collaborating, diplomats found around UN disclosed for our reporter.
Moreover, America accuses Sudan of training anti-neighboring state government forces and spreading them, though sources close to Sudan also disclosed that the measure taken on her would make sudden ready, more than any other time, to arm oppositions against Eritrea, Ethiopia and Uganda.
"This measure of sanction is the last of all atrocities.
It's to be recalled that when the Eritrean, Isayas and Meles Zenawi trained and armed up to the brim the anti – Khartoum forces, the American government allocated more than twenty million dollars..
Was this not widening terrorism?"
One political observer disclosed;
It is expected that the Sanction imposed on Sudan's dates (date fruit) product that comes out of the thorny tree have a great impact on America on her products of Perfumes, Juicy beverages and candies.
Nonetheless, state Department officials started saying "permission would be granted for those who would like to bring this product of tree".
Out of the 20 million dollar products Sudan sell to America, 9 million dollars would be gotten from date fruits, Washington Post pointed out.
Sudan has for long stopped widely treating opposition forces of Ethiopian and Eritrean governments.
Instead it was widely talked of Sudan's willingness to hand over opposition forces in the talk that was held between the Ethiopian Security head and his Sudan counter part.
However, many were surprised at how America's sudden change of stand has became acute.
The American government uses dictatorial rulers in Angola, Eritrea, Uganda and Ethiopia in order to establish countries that would follow its policies, experts who know the direction of American policies (       ) pointed out that the remaining agenda is to topple down Sudanese government.
In general, however, America would enter in to diplomatic wheedle tomorrow by putting aside Sudan today, many have underscored.
It's believed that this putting aside of Sudan would gradually enable the latter to rally support from the Arab World, and would serve as an impetus for seriously helping opposition forces of different governments.
Most politicians assumed that on the side of Ethiopia, too, entering the international political affairs that doesn't concern her, from her geo-political perspective, would be like becoming "quarrel some"..
From Tobia November 13, 1997
The Order of Bail Release of Mr. Siye Abrha was Decided to be Temporarily Banned
The Federal High Court first criminal bench in its yesterday court session received an appeal form investigation coordinating department and decided to temporarily ban the order of bail release of Mr. Seye Abrha, the Federal Police Investigation coordinating Department disclosed..
Mr. Bitew Belay's case was also given a ten-day appointment..
The Federal Police Investigation Coordinating Department disclosed in the evening today that the case between Federal Higher court first criminal bench court session appealing investigation coordinating Department and the response given Mr. Siye Abrha, who was allowed a bail release by the court order, would remain banned until a different order is given from this court. .
In the meantime, the Federal First tribunal which seated yesterday to see Mr. Bitew Belay's case gave 10 days for police to present the evidence it claimed to have..
The lawyer of the suspect on his side produced a charge against police stating that the Federal Police could not investigate regional cases without having representation. .
Besides the Federal Police doesn't have the legal authority to see regional cases and it can be given no time, so the lawyer asked the court to respect the bail right of the suspect.   .
The Federal Police on its part said that the budget allocated to the Southern people regional Administration through the Office of the Prime Minister which had to be reimbursed wasn't operational and the individual was unnecessarily involved in this case, which left a shadow of doubt.
In relation to this the Federal Police said that if the suspect is released documents could be lost so asked the court to give it appointment.  .
The lawyer of the suspect asked the court to release the suspect stating that while the document was on the law, it would be inappropriate to appeal for another appointment..
The Federal First Court 1st tribunal on its part said although the lawyer of the suspect had put it as if the case was beyond the authority of the Federal Police there are documents which show that the action took place in Addis Ababa, so in order to see the case it gave appointment for June 22, 2001..
From Addis Zemen June 12, 200.
EELPA and GUNA play in Nairobi and DareSelam Tomorro.
EELPA for its African club championship game with the Kenyan OSERIAN went to Nairobi on Wednesday.
While GUNA went to DareSelam on Thursday for the game it has with the Zanzibar's police.
They will make their return games after a fortnight.
Since both team wanted Sunday, the federation talked to the committee of the clubs, and decide that EELPA plays its return game Friday February 16 at o'clock in Addis Ababa for it will go to Zanzibar for east African games, while Guna was decide to play Sunday February 18 at 4 o'clock.
It's better if the federation facilitates a fund-raising game allowing the entrance fee to allocate it for prizes of motivation, for the two teams, after they return to Addis either on Sunday or Monday.
GUNA is the firs team from Tigray clubs to participate in an international game..
Wouldn't the game be strange for you for it in new.
This was the question the team's coach Mr. Abrham Teklehaimanot was asked, for which he replied, "In fact, GUNA is participating in international game for the first time.
However, the players are not new for international game.
Showel and Tsehaye played for children and Youth team.
Mikele has also played for children, Youth and national team.
Since these players have experience playing international games it won't be a strange thing.
In order to get good results for the following game, we would come narrowing the result in the game we play in Zanzibar," he said.
The winner of the two games would play with Tunisia.
The supporters and nationals of the region who live in Addis Ababa have contributed a lot of money to GUNA for the international competition the feam has..
In addition to this, the club has got 60 thousand Birr in the fund-raising competition held in Makale.
The team would take 18 players.
Since one player got sick, they presented Sileshi Gedey to be registered last Tuesday.
The opponent team, Zanzibar police had only once met Ethiopian clubs.
And that was there in Zanzibar in 1998 with Ethiopian coffee at the competition held among East African games.
And in the game coffee won 3-0.
As coffee had an extraordinary activity then, it was not difficult for the team to defeat Zanzibar on its own land.
Since the then coffee and GUNA teams had different styles of playing (one based on individuals skill, the other on team activity), there was a difference in exceeding playing.
The team leader who represented the federation that went with Guna was Mr. Solomon Derse.
Mr. Markos was made to go with EELPA.
This is its second time for EELPA to go to Kenya.
In 1994 it played against Gormahaya and was beaten 2-0 in Nairobi.
In a game that took place a year ago, Oserian and Saint George ended in 1-1 draw, and in a penalty shoot out to identify the winner, Oserian won. .
At that time since Saint George tried to play in a special way, it was found quite difficult for its opponent team.
How about EELPA?
We asked the coach, Gulelat Ferde about the game that is to be taking place in Nairobi, "We will try to play the best of our playing.
Our aim is to win and come.
We haven't seen the Oserian team.
But they are said to play long.
We are expecting to win and come with good result," he responded.
EELPA would play its return game in Addis Ababa and go to Zanzibar to play the opening game on Wednesday with the same team, Oserian.
It is indicative that EELPA would have redundant games.
From Libro February 2, 2002 .
"We Follow Our Own, not Eritrean Policy
Meles Zenawi
Due to the sudden clash surfaced between Ethiopia and Eritriea, the citizens of both countries are found in extreme worry..
The roads that enable Ethiopians in Eritrea to return to their country have become narrow..
With regards to Eritreans in Ethiopia, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, in the press statement he gave on the May 28 Occasion, more or less put them in some worry..
When the Prime Minister spoke in relation to this "...It has been an issue we have been discussing time and again.
We had believed" we would get solution for this problem in a short time..
The important thing is there is a common working procedure.
With regards to living, foreigners who live in Ethiopia as long as they make Ethiopia their living place could work in any sector they close, registering as dwellers..
Similarly, Ethiopians living in any country, as long as they made that country their living place, they would have the opportunity to work in any sector..
"These are many Ethiopians who make America their living place..
Even though they don't have American citizenship, they are allowed to work privately and in some government works for they have permanent residence permit..
There fore, there's a residence permit, and citizenship right..
Being a foreigner, it is not possible to participate in elections..
One cannot participate in defense forces..
In such sensitive areas any body who doesn't have citizenship right can not be assigned..
Hence, we see citizenship right and residence permit being mixed up..
Between Eritrea and Ethiopia..
"In order to put this in order, stage by stage, for Eritrean citizens who live in Ethiopia, respecting their right of residence permit and their right to work, even those who have residence permits, but because they are not citizens if these may be places where they are not allowed to enter, stage by stage, to let them leave we were discussing on issues pertaining to this..
More or less, these were situations where agreements reached upon..
This problem that surfaced now may be an impediment to implement the situations that were more or less agreed upon..
However, later the fact that this thins should be put in order is the issue government took position on..
"Citizens and dwellers should be identified ... there are works limited to citizens.    .
For instance, in relation to investment and finance issue, issue related to journalism, is restricted to citizens.
And it means they can not work in such fields.
But in any other works, this includes all other foreigners living in Ethiopia..
The Armenians, Eritreans can work in the same status..
"The other is there are government works where foreigners could be employed..
For instance, there are Indian teachers whom we brought from abroad; there are consultants of foreign teachers..
There are government works not limited by citizenship..
These would, as necessary, when the professions and skills are not access able, there would be an opportunity where foreigners would participate.
What ever the case might be, there are areas where foreigners would never participate..
For example, defense, parliament, security and some sensitive areas; these are areas that should be limited only to citizens..
"...We divide them in these stages so as to implement it orderly; we discussed this issue with Eritrean government..
The problem that is created now took the issue back..
Anyway, the Ethiopian government based on in its own direction and its own law, as well as world wide common working procedure, would be a situation to resolve this complicated problem ...
It is known that "Ethiopians in Eritrea are done some injustice..
We have been making effort to resolve this through discussion with the pertinent Eritrean government bodies up to now..
Well the present problem may aggravate this situation..
Nevertheless, we're following ours, not Eritrean policy..
When the Eritrea's turn left, there is no reason why we turn left..
Just because the Eritrean government did injustice to Ethiopians, there can not be a suggestion that says the Ethiopian government should do injustice to Eritreans.
We are led by our law, we have our own ethics, we have our own outlook..
We are led by our law and ethics but not with tit-for-tat mentality, repeating what one has done," he responded..
From Fiameta June 3, 1998
The Eritrean who were Evicted form Ethiopia were Warmly Welcomed with Ceremonies of Drum Beating and Offering of Popcorn..
"No Force Can Stop the War!"
Issayas Afeworki
The Eritrean President Issayas Afeworki expressed that they won't leave from the areas that had already been under control of EPLF, from Beademe, Sheraro, Alitena and ZalaAnbesa, and he also claimed that the region is Eritrea's..
Unless Ethiopia stops the sanction put on trade ships and airplanes, he warned that he could bomb central Ethiopa.
And he made it official that no force could stop the war..
In the mean time, the Eritreans who were evicted from Ethiopia were warmly welcomed by over 100,000 people with ceremonies of drum-beating and offering of popcorn, when they reached Asmara in the dusk on June 21, 1998, the voice of America disclosed..
Caron Pino's full report is as follows..
Thousands of Eritreans were parading through the railways of the city applauding and complimenting the people who came through fourteen buses saying "Welcome to your country!" receiving them warmly..
The majority of them were holding leaves of a palm tree..
Many welcomed them holding bread and throwing popcorns as sign of affection..
Behind the buses, the 30 years war victims and children who were in wheel chairs were stuffed on trucks and were seen following them..
Although there has been tension since the clash started between Eritrea and Ethiopia at the beginning of May, the eviction of the Eritreans has created frantic worry..
3 ex-fighters who were waiting for the buses were expressing their ideas, "The execution of such an act is bad..
We didn't do like this..
It has enraged us..
The fight was between soldiers and not between civilians..
... We observed many bad things acting up on us by Tigrean people.              .
And this has no acceptance internationally..
From now on, we do not need them..
We will overcome all by ourselves.
They said.
... The Eritrean government was against the eviction of its citizens form Ethiopia..
These Eritreans have been working for Ethiopia for the past years, as well as fighters who stood beside the gorilla fighters to overthrow the authoritarian leader, Mengistu Hailemariam, it said..
I am deeply hurt for not hearing the international community expressing their opposition regarding the eviction of Eritreans form Ethiopia..
After the clash had started the feeling of the majority of Eritreans was surprise and astonishment wondering to fight in a war..
The additional statement which the Eritreans gave to foreign journalists surprised many..
"Be it to my children or any Eritrean, we will teach them to know about the Tigrean people, what they did to us before and what they have done now..
We will teach them to be cautious about them through out their life."
They said, sadly. .
It is expected that these and other reprimands would make many sorrowful and overshadow the next peaceful times.    .
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
Message of Fiameta
In order to stop EPLF's insurgents the control of all the people will be Decisive (from the stand point of military science).
Insurgents cross the national border of a country and enter another country whose aim is to bring about terror and suspicion on the prevailing government, gather military, political, economic and social information, and disseminate propaganda by studying the people's grievance and burning questions, attack military and civil areas as well as communication and various economic sectors, conduct kidnapping and assassination..
The entrances the insurgents who come form foreign land to the country use the dwelling places of their clans. .
Before they engage in their work, the hide in their clans. .
As has been mentioned above the wide range duties of the insurgent groups, since the Eritrean army who are in confrontation with the Ethiopian ones around the border couldn't go forward, as an option, it may send insurgents in to the central Ethiopia in order to continue its destructive mission, so all the people in the city or country should stand ready to protect. .
Since EPLF leadership are joined with the defected group OLF, and OLF is said to have started relations at the level of leadership, EPLF can use these defected members to in surge especially within the people of speakers of Oromifa an accomplish its destructive mission, the people in the city and countryside should identify and control there forces.
When insurgents engage in their mission, they have easily identifiable weak points, therefore, if controller from the area is assigned at village, district, town, or countryside level they can easily put them under control..
The following are the weak points upon which insurgents could mainly be identified..
* Most of the time insurgents can be identified by their clothes, general facial expressions, language or style of talking..
In addition, there are facial, way of dressing and eating behavior, walking situations that can serve identity each insurgent, so the dwellers of the area or security guards could take notice and catch them..
* When they pass by the countryside, they leave footprints so it's indicative of a strange person had passed by..
Their footprints also remain noticeable in sandy areas..
* Insurgents could not pass without feeling suspicious and staring when they pass by through enemy people..
Whatever trained they may be they feel frightened for their activities are underground..
This worry and fear can be read from their facial expressions; so far one who made a good follow-up it would be uncovered..
* Since people who conduct dangerous attacks make their movements during the night time, they could be traced make their movements during the night time, they could be traced by taking a sudden curfew measures..
In order for insurgents to do their duties they have to be embraced by the people..
Insurgents who have no public support would be like a fish out of the sea. .
Hence, if government and the people work hand and gloves insurgents could not do their missions, and if the police village, farmers' association and individual dwellers cooperate a work by creating relations to one another, it is possible to about the plans of the insurgents of EPLF, so let's cooperatively control them..
From Fiameta July 10, 1998
Abune Gabriel is Forbidden to meet People
Beatitude Bishop Gabriel member of the Holy Synod and Archbishop of the west Shewa Office of National Preaching due to his request for warded to the Patriarch Paulos "to have mercy and reconciliation with God and the laity, return the Holy Synod power you held" was forbidden to get access of food from outside and not to meet with families and other people as from October 1, 1998, internal sources disclosed; Mebruk newspaper in its 30the of September, 1998 edition, 2nd year No. 52/104, has the 6 page text of the bishop's call for negotiation, which was said to discuss at length the overall problems of the Orthodox church and had a 7-point remedial suggestions, the sources disclosed.
These are:
1. Your Holiness, remembering that you were imprisoned unjustly, let you remind the      government to release those who were arrested through your pressure.
2. Your Holiness, remembering that you were sacked from work and retired in 1982 unjustly, let       you sympathetically bring back to work those wise people, priests and workers who were          sacked from their job with out doing any harm in the office of the clergy and in various           churches;
3. The Book of Religious Dogma that was published two years ago in two languages which has      brought great criticisms to our church, in page 15 of the English version says, "God is      three in divinity and character" an since this brought about great condemnation, let it be      urgently corrected; an if it has already been corrected let enough explanation be given      on the radio, television and newspaper.
Let the formerly published book be gathered;
4. The Holy Synod legislation that was approved on May 8, 1996, in chapter 8, Article 23,           divested the rights of the Holy Synod, abused the power of the Holy Spirit and so be             cancelled and your holiness return the Holy Synod power you took;
5. Let an office be opened that overlooks and controls the archbishops, wish people, priests and      deacons as well as the rights of the laity are respected; .
6. Let a new Synodic law be drafted by the General Assembly Drafting committee and then          approved that would make the patriarch work in accordance to the law of the apostles and        wise men, so that it can make the patriarch withdraw from a dictatorial power and only be        limited to the power bestowed upon the holy synod; .
7. Let the activities that had, for five years, brought about criticisms not be repeated;  and let       us not be, any more, laughing stocks of readers of various newspapers, and let a main          peace and reconciliation conference be conducted.
Let us reprimand one another; let's discuss; let's reconcile, in that conference.
Let God helps us to do this, Amen," they were saying.
Bishop Gabriel who made his home and office in the Headquarter of the Office of clergy just like the others, on the morrow of this call of his, that is, as from Friday afternoon, he was forbidden lunch and diner, and those with cases were not able to meet him, for the security workers at the gate couldn't let them pass, as this sources disclosed, the deacon who closely help him was also forbidden to get in to his room, they explained.
It's to be recalled that last year in January, bishop Gabriel had a similar sanction for a almost a month not to meet people for he went out of an assembly meeting saying that the process of the meeting was out of the mission of the church.
At that time bishop Gabriel disclosed in writing to the Patriarch that unless the situation gets improved he would altogether leave the premise, so the sanction had been lifted..
The sources who mentioned that it was violating the bishop's human rights and out of the dogma of the church to forbid the intrace of food form outside and talking of individuals with cases, called for the laity and human rights organizations to put pressure to lift the sanction that was passed in secret on this spiritual father. .
From Tobia October 9, 1997
There was an explosive bomb Attack on two UN vehicles in Eritre.
Two vehicles whose properties were that of Canada's Peace delegations of the United Nations Mission for Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) were attacked by an explosive bomb at Tsorena, Eritrea.
The first explosive bomb occurred on March 12 at 2:10 in the afternoon while the second attack occurred yesterday.
Although there was no human injury in the attack, insignificant damage occurred on the two cars..
The attacks occurred at the time when the cars were investigating whether the vicinal roads were free from explosive bombs.
Major General Patrick, UNMEE's force higher commander, underlined that although by chance something pitiable didn't happen, this attack showed how it's important to get explosive bomb information form both countries. .
In addition, he stated that the information about explosive bombs is not only to keep safe the peace enforcement delegates, but also to ensure the security of the displaced fellow people who would return to their respective countries when the temporary security zone is established.
In order to establish and control the security zone that separates the two countries and to enable the displaced dwellers return roads must be clean from explosives..
In the areas where the mission is found UNMEE, Slovak and Bangladesh groups of experts who made explosives inoperative are doing cleaning task..
In addition, the UNMEE centre for making explosives inoperative is giving training for the people enrolled in this task and relaying the necessary information.
Additional investigation is being underway to identify the cause of the two accidents.
From Addis Zemen March 16, 2001
Editorial
The Value and Importance of National Reconciliation
In our country, discussing ideas calmly, resolving differences through tolerance or agreeing to disagree has not been a common experience.
While it is not possible to say it is from our nature, we are not used to accept defeat willfully due to our cultural backwardness.
Starting from two individuals we give precedence to resolve our difference of opinions through the physical tackle.
This kind of practice could be said a black spot of our thinking that went deeper from individual to political organization.
Consequently we are dragging ourselves along the ground embracing, the culture of guns and poverty.
It's common to have differences of opinions in individuals, communities, countries, political parties.
If the contradiction among these social forces were to be resolved through force, as we've been used to for long, and are inclined to do now, it's not difficult to estimate in what kind of turmoil the world would get in.
That's why we say the way of contradiction should be abandoned in order for us not to get in to such kind of disorderly situation.
That's why we say our political differences should be resolved though the spirit of tolerance and national reconciliation.
And we benefit, not lose, as a result.
Resolving differences through the culture of clashes and guns have hurt us deeply.
Especially the clash that's been among children of one nation consumes not only the country's wealth.
And not only development fruits that came about through time..
But it is also the youth who is the productive force and has a prior role in the construction of community and development of a country that would be devastated.
Due to the absence of peace, the hope of civilians to live would be obscured..
We would move from poverty to the abyss of poverty.
We saw in our eyes this practice and its consequences for the last thirty years.
We went through it.
If we just say the sacrifice that was paid to defend the unity of the country is the price one generation would pay to the country it lives in, the loss of the lives of the children of the country due to political differences is countless..
It was a generation that perished due to the disgusting so-called white and red terror.
This generation was young, and not only productive and full of strength but also that excelled in its understanding, "why did this happen.
"It used to ask; it was one who was bright and who could widely contribute for the strengthening of democratic culture.
As a result of these white and red terrors, there are now many behind bars who were from these elite and that were believed to be active groups..
If our queries are to continue today and tomorrow, all who have, through guns, destroyed the unity of the country, opened a chapter of racial politics and caused to destroy one another, killed their comrades and opponents in the struggle in the bushes, killed and have people killed in broad day light are to be brought to justice.
The yesterday's destruction cannot give blessing for today..
In fact, as today's leaders told us from the outset, that criminals of red terror are put to justice so that it would teach a lesson that no one's life ever in this country would pass without legal order.
Today, these people have no gut and courage to repeat these phrases.   .
They don't put to justice criminals of Bedeno's, water's, Areka's, Mosque's, Universities, Jesus square's cases and assassinators of Asefa Maru.
When we say let national reconciliation reign in the country, it should be understood that we're not saying that ordinary criminals sight not to be put to justice.
But at least, before additional destruction is followed, let the confrontation of political forces slack off and let there be a chance to discuss; we mean let the door open.
As it's started in our opening news the political air has been tightened with contradictions..
There's a naked contradiction between leaders and followers, among leadership itself, and between the incumbent and opposition parties.
In most places the contradiction is transforming to military clash.
We are heading towards destruction.
For national reconciliation and political tolerance more than anyone else, it is the government in power, the political organization which is the basis of the government and its all members that shoud work day and night..
For this it has a reason.
This government and its supporters should bring about and familiarize peaceful transition power.
If this didn't happen, the first to be hurt would be them.
We think they have seen the trouble the act of being defeated by force could bring about from the previous regime..
As a government, they have the responsibility of keeping the peace of the community not with force but with knack.
The other reason that makes national reconciliation necessary is not only our backwardness and the necessity of our cooperation to defeat poverty.
It's known that it's TPLF which is the prevalent political orbit (central wheel) that claims to have started its struggle holding the complaints of the Tigrean people..
Whether the group has a support of all the Tigrean people is doubtful but due to the narrow cause it has, the superiority of Tigrina speakers was clearly demonstrated for the last six years, and hence, "We-They" kind-of-saying dividing people in to two category, which is a dangerous tendency has been created..
This is a dangerous tendency that could pass on to the next generation.
Therefore, the disease that has been widespread by few leadership should be stopped before long by the cooperative effort of the struggle of Tigrean people, responsible leadership of TPLF, all opposition forces and donor countries. .
The value and importance of national reconciliation would be clearly seen only then.
From Tobia September 25, 1997
The EPRDF Central Council Regular Session Begins Today
The EPRDF Central Council begins its regular session today June 19, 2001, the front's office disclosed.
In a statement the office released it stated that the meeting that starts today will evaluate in depth the journey the front and its member organizations have traveled through the last ten years.
In the council's meeting, central committee members of SEPDF, TPLF and OPDO council representations and central committee members would participate in the meeting, the statement disclosed.
In addition, members represented by cadres from each organization are made to participate in the council's forum as invited guests, it stated.
In the evaluation session the council starts today, the conclusion it reaches at each stage would be official, the council pointed out.
From Addis Zemen June 18, 200.
The standpoint and Resolution of the Third Plenary Session of Board of Sympathizer Groups of Ethiopia, AAOP and Professor Asra.
We who are in different positions of AAPO and sympathizer group of Ethiopia, AAPO and professor Asrat, in a meeting held today on October 21, 2000 in Addis Ababa, Gerar Hotel, after having listened to the report of the executive committee of the board, deeply and widely investigated it had unanimously passed the following decision.
1st With Regards to our Organization, AAPO
1.1 We came to understand from the report that after our leader, His Excellency Professor Asrat Woldeyas died, the central committee didn't call an urgent national assembly and in his place didn't substitute his leader, so it realized that the organization is without a leader.
Therefore, according to the regulation and principles of the party, activities done within the AAPO up to now have been illegal, it realized.
1.2 We can realize from this report that since the executive board meeting second plenary session was held in May 9, 1999 and the effort to make our leader's burial ceremony colorful, and in his place assigning a leader who is capable and efficient, evaluating the pros and cons of the organization, and in order to enable it take measures of amendment, the session realized the effort it made to call the national assembly.
1.3 Moreover, the assembly looked in depth the effort the organization made to strengthen sympathizer groups in foreign relations, in its own organization, public relations departments.
1.4 At last, the assembly fully realized that the report analyzed in depth the situation of out country and our organization, AAPO, and its call for a better struggle.
Hence, /1/ the assembly appreciates the work performance report the executive committee presented and unanimously approves it and decided to have it as a document.
2nd with Regards to General NekaTibeb and Dissenting leadershi.
2.1 Since the assembly realized General NekaTibeb Bekele's leadership since 1995 have been engaged in scattering the organizations strong and sympathizer members, and continuously removing structures.
2.2 Moreover, realizing that dismantling the Moresh musical band that was a strong force behind the organization and which was established in a tiring effort, has made the assembly sorrowful.
2.3 Taking into consideration that he assigned TPLF sympathizers in Addis Ababa Council and even in the central committee, and paving way for the destruction of the organization,
2.4 And realizing that he used the income that was gotten from various sources regardless of the finance rules and regulations, and objected the investigation of it by external auditors .
2.5 Considering that based on the code of the organization, Article 2.12, the question that was asked by all members and bodies, particularly, his negligence to the call of the strengthened national assembly that came about after His Excellency professor Asrat woldeyes' death, protecting against the election of leaders and being an impediment by attempting to put himself on to power.
2.6 Dismantling the support-giving committees which have been a back bone in finance, material, diplomatic and organizational work and giving unparalleled contribution and dismissing the popular leadership and attempting to displace the people in exile writing letters to governments expressing death, and seeing these acts with great sorrow.
1st Unanimously condemning the General's unprincipled leadership, until the national assembly is called and decided, he is ejected from leadership in AAPO.
Therefore so as to make whatever activity he does illegal.
2nd The others who were close collaborative to him in this destructive work especially
1. Admasu Mekete
2. Sahile Seif.
In order to stop their destructive task in the organization it is decided that they should be banned from doing any activity of the part and be brought to justice before the national assembly.
3rd In order to maintain AAPO's legal existence and to reassure its acceptability and prestige among people the sympathizer's executive committee would call all members and supporters, followers for a public meeting and have them decided about the meeting of the assembly.
4th The destructive campaign that has started on Ethiopia by the encouragement and support of the historical enemies of Ethiopia should stop and the incumbent government should make the necessary effort to strengthen the unity of the people, and the assembly realized that it is the EPLF group that's responsible for the extermination of people.
5th As it is indicated in the report, the assembly decides to have the effort of public and foreign relations, continue strengthened.
Ethiopian, AAPO and Professor Asrat's Sympathizer Group.
October 24, 1999
Addis Abab.
"Hussien Iydid A waits him Death"
His powers has been highly hit
Among the popular war leaders who's primarily called was Hussien Iydid who has now been weakened and found in a stage where he can no more move, the western political analysts expressed.
According to the analysts Hussien Iydid weakened due to the battle he had with his rivalries and division among his clan.
Hussien doesn't have the capability return to its former state, one western diplomat said.
As another western diplomat expressed, Hussien Iyded was brought to such a failure because he committed mistakes after mistakes and had a clash with his neighboring Ethiopia, so he has what so ever capability to control the former strategic areas, but in Somalia a person has to struggle un to his death, otherwise what awaits Hussien Iyded is death, the German Radio reported quoting him.
Iydid who has recently gone to Egypt, Libya and Eritrea but the reception he was given in all the places was cold, "what Hussien needs is to create peace with Ethiopia agreement with his clans," advised Libya's Gadafi, the news disclosed.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
Diplomatic effort Changed to Fear (?)
-Mr. Seyoum gave the last warning at the eve of Christmas.
-Isayas Afeworki disclosed that his troops won't move from Beademe.
Ethiopian Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Seyoum Mesfin gave a press statement on the eve of Christmas about the prevalent Ethiopian and Eritrean border issues to diplomats residing in Addis Ababa..
The speech he made in the Hilton hotel was more serious than the usual and hinted that from now on his government will use the last option-getting into war.
Mr. Seyoum Mesfin highly criticized especially the international community for soothing and consoling EPLF..
He also pointed out that the cause of this problem was that the international community couldn't call a spade a spade.
And this made EPLF continue in its arrogance, he said.
The limitless patience exhibited by Ethiopian government has been criticized by the people and army..
Especially the army who rose with indignation from every quarter is now feared that its boosted morale may gradually fade away..
The EPLF radio was repeatedly heard in its news last week the morale of the army is dying..
Moreover, the front is at present talking to various top ranking officials the army..
Although this fake interview which was said to take place was for propaganda, in actual fact, it may hurt the army who rose with boosted morale, as many would agree.    .
Many feared that the diplomatic effort that passed its limit may change to fear..
While preserving a country's sovereignty at any place and time is unquestionable, some say that EPRDF's softness was inappropriate and giving time for EPLF to buy time means it would be enable this force to strengthen in work force and ammunition..
This in turn would increase the upcoming sacrifice, they suggested..
In the mean time, Eritrean president Mr. Isayas Afeworki in his Christmas speech to the public made it clear that his troops would never leave Beademe or other occupations..
While exchanging threatening words have become customary in both sides, especially Eritrean President's conceited words still continue pouring.
Anyway, seven months have passed without knowing the exact date the war breaks nor when Ethiopia starts preserving her sovereignty.
Although it's difficult to say exactly where situations lead, the limitless patience exhibited on the part of Ethiopia has become contentious..
From Fiameta January 8, 1999
A Book that Introduces Ethiopian Sacred History was Published for the First Time
A new book that introduces and narrates one by one the Ethiopian historical places and Sacred History was published, it was disclosed.
This book that was published by Ethiopian Orthodox church possesses hundreds of the holy name of males and females.
The book that expressed their birth places and the places of the churches that were built by their names, was prepared by the Wise Likeberhanat Mekorewos whose work place is in the clergy as a Head of preaching the Gospel, it was proved.
The book consists of many extremely difficult things to believe.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
Jennifer and Reporter Encountered Opposition .
The effort that Jennifer Parmele who is known for her Pro-TPLF stand and former journalist of Washington post is making to get support from United Nations Science and culture Organization (UNESCO) for Reporter newspaper got opposition from EPRP;
As EPRDF farmed fake political organizations in the pretext of having multi-parties, Reporter newspaper is a "Trojan horse" of EPRDF who stood among the free press, said EPRP, and in a letter written to UNESCO on October 25, 1998 EPRP stated the Jennifer Parmeli who's pro EPRDF used to write unbalanced news while she was in Ethiopia and biased to wards the ruling party, and now her effort to rally support for a newspaper which in the pretext of the free press, is subsidized by the ruling party, made her stand obvious, criticized EPRP.
In the letter EPRP wrote to UNESCO, the editor-in-chief of Reporter, Amare Aregawi is a member of the ruling party, TPLF, and was a higher official of this government and he was the person who strongly argued that the press law which put many journalists behind bars is precise and without error, and for a newspaper which struggles for aborting the development of free press and execute governments aim EPRP continued that attempting to use Jennifer Parmeli to rally support from UNESCO is one of the methods employed to defraud the world community, and asked UNESCO not to be deceived by such an elusive mission;
It is known that Jennifer Parmeli whom Washington post dismissed is now trying to get residence permit in Ethiopia in the pretext of forming an organization which gives support to the free press by the name "Independent Press Agency" (Independent Press Agency);
In a response she gave to testify about Mr. Amare Aregawi, she said, "he used to report on the radio during the time of patriotic struggle, prepare the people for true struggle, after the victory left the party on his own will, stood alone for true free press, presents information based on truth, criticizes the government without fear," sources from the area disclosed; .
Some readers who evaluated the editor-in-chief of Reporter news paper, Amare Aragaw's former role and the content of the paper would agree with the idea EPRP wrote to UNESCO;
According to these people's disclosure, the newspaper is involved in indirectly declaring untrue the issues related to government that have been exposed by other free press, and the accusation of Tamerat was being continually reported as if it were not political, just as TPLF needed it to be portrayed, only the police is information was reported about the killings of Assefa Maru and three other individuals killed around Mekanisa, he declared untrue the news written about the patriarchs embezzlement, never repots on the burning issues of the country, especially about those journalists who are suffering from the tortures of prison, all these are given as evidences.
More than Ethiopia's issues, he gives coverage on issues related to Eritrea and Sudan and points out before hand what measures government would take, presents that the political mistake committed by EPRDF was not of policy but of implementation, all these made most people doubt whether the newspaper is free;
In a country where there are press who strive day in and day out and suffering from imprisonment and money punishment, the rally that was made to support this organization which didn't have pressure and didn't face any risk at all, has taken many by surprise.    .
From Tobia November 6, 1997
Editoria.
Does the Night fell on the regime
There are more than 20 internationally renown and respected human rights, conscience and press freedom keeping organizations..
These remotely situated parts of the world known Mr. Meles and his leadership comrades for they are institutions that shut when one human being, one journalist, a prisoner of conscience is killed in atrocity.
These organizations wrote several times to his Excellency Prime Minister to improve the human rights and handling of journalists.
They craved his sympathy; more than twenty Human Rights Organizations associations of journalists, even scientific research organization, starting from Ethiopia Human Rights Forum up to AMNESTY International, from Haiti up to El Salvador up to America, craved and beg our leaders so that the rights of citizens of Ethiopian are respected.
This regime seems to aggravate it conditions whenever it received a reminder to respect our rights to be human, freedom to be journalists.
Adds up the atrocity and injustice.
Performs its massacre in public.
It provokes imprisonment.
It considers it duty persecuting citizens.
The organization which closely followed this, eye witnessed and fairly evaluated situation, organization for keeping journalists' Right (        ) categorized Prime Minister Meles as one of the ten enemies of the press.
Although no one is pleased with this name, it is the right measures from reality point of view.
Because starting from him down to all officials there's no healthy outlook to the press; in exposing the widely spread mockery and violation of human rights with tangible evidence in Ethiopia, these human rights organizations are not alone..
The European Council which consists of sixteen members states repeatedly gave advice, request and warning..
Behind the warning the European council wrote to Mr. Meles, these are sixteen countries.
The council was obliged to send strong statement similar to that of Tobia and other free press because it calmly analyzed that the rights of Ethiopians have been violated while they should get legal protection.
Those who listened to only the people in power and used to say "EHRF is a political organization and needs political power", they are sharing the shout it makes for the respect of human rights, today an it's possible to say that, the struggle for right and freedom had moved one step a head..
No nation could be led up to the end by a blow of fist, butt of gun, bullet and bomb.
This kind of authoritarian strategy didn't serve fro long for anyone.
Instead, we know that from cruelty and unfair measure, rebellions are unfair measure, rebellions are created..
This regime came through rebelliousness and knows well about rebelliousness, since it realized what individuals do when they are mistreated, and it shouldn't have needed any reminder and push..
Preparing various fictitious stories to citizens, putting journalists behind bars, opening a propaganda campaign on the free press, however, aggravates the problem and confrontation, but doesn't bring about any gain.
Recently, including the newspaper "Ethiop", few free press journalists were put behind bars by police without having the court's order to capture them..
Side by side to this government and party newspapers opened up late-propaganda on the free press.
The newspaper of EPRDF named "Revolutionary Democracy" (No.220, October 1..7/1998) told us citing names that Ruhama, Tomar, Andinet, Tobia and other which it said are related to the newspapers, are the people affiliated to the Dergue regime..
Since the people have conscience that weighs the personality and work of all these people, there's no need to go a long way to tell them.
Imprisonment or giving names wouldn't solve this problem.
Disseminating Cadres all over the world spread lies, and to confuse propagating numerous lies with the monopolized mass media doesn't bear fruit.
The remedy is not killing and putting behind bars, sending people to exile and confusion through the media but respecting people's rights and freedom.
Since it doesn't accept this, we realize that the right fell up on the regime..
From Tobia October 9, 1997
Ethiopian Democratic Party was Established in Addis Ababa!
It's expected to give statement recently
Under the basic motto, "People's Democratic Order for Ethiopia" with out any difference of race, color, religion and language, where all Ethiopians participate, a political party by the name "Ethiopian Democratic Party" got legality and started activities.
As it was possible to understand from the party's political program, "the incumbent party holding fast its racial politics with its inflexible stand" couldn't soften and instead of seeing the country's downfall sitting in the bush, the party was established, in the hope of using the small opportunity it has and peacefully expressing ideas.
"In order to skim the enemy cloud hanging on our country and to curb the ongoing journey of failure, organizing and leading so that it plays a prominent role" explains EDP and for this it calls for all Ethiopian people to be on his side, in it program."
In relation to the establishment of this party, the Fiameta newspaper asked the founders of this organization and they said, "At a time when all opposition parties which are abroad as well as those in the country, failing to carryout the historical responsibility they were entrusted by the people, and protesting against each other in minor differences, using the same opportunity the incumbent party unfolds and rising to struggle peacefully, from the stand point of EPRDF's malicious behavior is considered as a great courage and though there's no doubt that this presupposes great sacrifice, claiming to win the incumbent party, holding the public this by itself is to be considered as victory..
Those who are abroad and opposition parties by themselves rather than expecting sympathy putting in place preconditions, it would be better to boldly get in to the country, living the life of the public, tasting the good and bad, coordinating and making the public struggle gripping the throat of the incumbent party, giving way to the death of political refugee," that would be better, they disclosed.
On the other hand, the Ethiopian Democratic Party (EDP) would introduce its aim and program to the public and whether it would participate in the next election it's expected to give statements.
Fiameta newspaper would present EDP's program continuously as from the next edition on wards.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
Meeting of Ethio-Eritrean Border and Restitution Commission Held in Hei.
According to the peace agreement signed between Ethiopia and Eritrea meeting of border and restitution commissions held in Heig, Holland's capital on March 25 and 26 2001, Foreign Affairs Ministery announced..
In the statement given to (Ethiopian News Agency) ENA yesterday evening, the Border commission in its meeting exchange ideas and gave reminder on the disciplinary procedures the commission would abide by, the system of resolving oppositions on judges, financial administration, as well as on presentation of applications and time-limit.
This meeting decided that the first meeting of the commission with completed members to be held in May, it disclosed..
Similarly, the Restitution Commission discussed on the disciplinary and administrative issues and passed on reminder, informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the office of International permanent peace-making court decided to use the members of the commission as secretaries, it also disclosed..
The ministry disclosed that the agreement signed between Ethiopia and Eritrea on December 11, 2001 decreed by-law that the two commissions which look in to issues of border and restitution be formed.
The Border and Restitution commission are formed by assigning 2 members form each countries, Ethiopia and Eritrea, and by the presidents of the commission that are elected by the 4 judges and accordingly commissioners were assigned from both sides and they each close their presidents and the commission is more or less in formation, it was pointed out. .
Since commissioners who serve in either Border or Restitution Commission are assigned by any of them sides, they have the responsibility of being objective and fair, there is a working procedure to oppose if one judge may be thought to have been prejudiced or impartial towards the other, and on the side of Ethiopia there's opposition on the two commissioners Eritrea brought and similar opposition was raised on the side of Eritrea..
However, since the expression of opposition on both sides would disallow the commission to look into administrative and disciplinary issues, the meetings were not conducted for two days.
Even though the commission members faced oppositions and have weakened authority to pall decisions, not only could they give reminders on necessary and appropriate issues, but could make important and constructive idea exchanges, the ministry disclosed.  .
The ministry also disclosed that in the meeting Ethiopian and Eritrean governments' consultants and international lawyers participated.
From Addis Zemen March 30, 2001
Ethiopia is punished by CAF; Today She Plays Against south Africa
It is to be recalled that our country, after twenty-five years, had the opportunity to host a great continental championship, which was considered to be good news and the games were opened with colorful ceremonies and has been continuing for a week more or less splendidly.
Yet, in the 5 games that have been conducted up to Saturday, many trespasses have been observed in Judgments of referees, leadership, provision of information, security and stewardship as well as in principles of sport discipline..
The Cameroonian and Egyptian players who have no respect to the sport spectators in their complete libertine and disgusting acts made one think they had "some support at the back".
It's known that CAF president Isa Hayatu is Cameroonian while Mustefa Kemal, the secretary is Egyptian..
On Wednesday just because the spectators expressed their opposition against Cameroonian players who used excessive force in their playing and showed conceit, the Cameroonian players insulted them in a libertine and disrespectful manner as they headed towards their wearing rooms..
Similarly the Egyptians, just because the referee gave a free kick to Ethiopia, troubled, admonished and spat on her, displaying their indecency publicly..
Above all, CAF general secretary Mustefa Kemal not only by slapping the Nigerian referee expressed his inducement support to the Egyptians, but also in the continuing games he was doing whatever he wishes, which made supporters furious..
As if these were not sufficient, last Saturday the two troublesome and quarrelsome of the championship, in revenge to the spectators' opposition and to disqualify Ethiopia and South Africa form championship they played below capacity out of sport discipline, which saddened the sport family; it made them furious.        .
As the international media and several observers agreed the agreed the disrupted match between Cameroon and Egypt showed their contempt to the spectators who paid their money to enter the stadium as well as the million people at home who were following the games.
The referee of the game had stopped the match 25 minutes after the game started due to the observable below the potential play..
Afterwards, including CAF Vice President, Farah Adon, the referees and observant stopped the game and told them Cameroonian and Egyptian players to amend their playing, they continued their indecent acts "relying on their people in CAF".
The spectators who saw these expressed their opposition in different ways and showed their position by throwing plastics, giving their backs, and asking to stop the match.
In the mean time after they expressed their regret through songs, "why don't you rise, why don't you rise, did you forget this flag is yours, "Hey, you brave, there's no melancholy during time of revolution" and so on, the spectators got in to the soccer field, took out the flag post at corner lines, and chased the players with different things, and kicked them, loosing their patience..
Moreover spectators, who were following the game through televisions at home, came to the stadium and damaged various properties..
Since the game couldn't continue due to this reason, it was made to stop and, on the morrow, including CAF president, Isa Hayatu, CAF authorities had a meeting at Sheraton Addis, CAF's temporary office, and pass on various decisions..
Based on this, it was decided that Ethiopian Football Federation be fined 2000 American dollar while the teams who played below their potentials are to play again at Abebe Bikila Stadium just to see the winner, Ethiopian and South African teams are to play at the same time at 4 o'clock in Addis Ababa Stadium..
In related news, one individual expressed his willingness to pay the 2000 dollar fine.
Accordingly, in order to pass for the next round, Ethiopian or South African teams should necessarily win by more than 2 goals.
In the mean time, yesterday from group one Ghana and Mali finished with 1 – 1 draw, while Angola beat Nigeria 2 – 0, passing for semi-final..
Accordingly, Ghana and Angola made sure they passed for World Youth cup.
It's disclosed that if in today's match Egypt and Cameroon defeat on another and Ethiopian youth team wins by more than 2 goals, it will get a chance of passing for semi final and World Youth Cup.  .
From Addis Zemen March 26, 2001
Kofi Anan Appoint a Deputy special messenger for Ethio-Eritrea case..
Kofi Anan, United Nations Secretary General appointed Jol Odiche of Benin as a deputy special messenger for Ethio-Eritrea case.
The United Nations disclosed the day before yesterday that Ambassador Odiche have been Benin's permanent representative for the United Nations since September, 1999, and in the Security Council he worked as representative for his country.
Previously the ambassador served his country at various capacities.
The report explained that he also worked as president of coordination office for developing countries.
Since Mr. Odiche graduated from a French Orleans University in international law in 1997, he has been working as an associate in Benin's Foreign Service Office..
Odiche has got a master's degree in diplomacy from public administration Institute in Paris.
Anan's deputy special messenger is said to start work after a week..
From Addis Zemen May 27, 200.
The AAPO Europe Coordination Board Released a Statement.
It Asked to step down NekeaTibeb from its Position
In Europe, Belgium at Luven town, after having met for two days from August 20 up to 22, the AAPO, Europe coordination Board released a statement and in it asked the acting president of AAPO, General Nekatibeb Bekele to urgently step down form the responsible position he occupied.
Moreover, it strongly opposed the preparation AAPO is making to participate in the 2000 TPLF election.
Since AAPO, above all, held as an aim Ethiopian ness, sovereignty and Unity every Ethiopian should not be a refugee and a stranger in its own country having been divided by race, language, religion and culture alone, so in opposing this it had gotten support and trust, the statement expressed.
The statement in relation to this said that TPLF/EPRDF which was frightened by AAPO's aim and belief started to repress its struggle and conduct anti-AAPO activities even from the outset.
Starting from putting behind bars and torturing until death, the founder and leader of AAPO, a great asset of Ethiopia, Professor Asrat Woldeyes, accusing him of factitious crime up to closing AAPO's office in every quarter, stealing documents, kidnapping and killing leaders, members and supporters, and putting behind brs the rest is doing great harm, the statement mentioned.
With regards to its working procedure General NekeaTibeb, the first deputy President, changed its direction of struggle, made it possible so that the leadership of TPLF would involve the other way round, the statement described and they tried to change his situation but they couldn't do so, it pointed out.
From now on, in order to lead the organization inline with the designed aim, it had released a nine-point statement of standpoint at the end of the meeting.
The statement of the standpoint is as follows.
1) In order for AAPO to carry out the aim of the struggle and the entrusted responsibility, effort       should be make to substitute loyal and ones who are efficient in leadership permanent       executive members of the central committee through democratic ways;.
2) In order to substitute the leadership with high caliber efficient bodies, the National Assembly       should be called urgently and a meeting that includes seen-off members, members and       supporters should be held in a short time and election should be conducted.
3) The resolutions passed in the seventh meeting held from July 1-4, the North American support       Organizations should be practical;
4) His Excellency General Nekeatibeb Bekele should immediately step down from his       responsibility, before the election taking into account his internal relationship with TPLF and             his determination to be elected for the upcoming election.
The statement in addition asked all members to facilitate organizational and alternative strategies of struggle rather than preparing to participate in the upcoming election and carry out this historical duty by accepting this standpoint the Europe AAPO members coordination board released. .
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
Message of Fiamet.
Be careful to those whose Arrows are Directed towards Fiameta
Since the establishment of this news paper we have paid more or less unnecessary and unwanted sacrifices to reach today..
We saw a lot of individuals in the yesteryear; observed many people.
Even today..
Those idle people who are green with satanic envy and their fellow friends are still laying obstacle on our path.
Overcoming all these obstacles with tolerance and discipline is troubling their conscience.
Moreover, the revealed wild characteristics of them enabled us to see who they are. .
Let our message reach those idle individuals to think like men.
While running here and there to wipe out Fiameta, we fear they might perish themselves..
Our today's message and advice to them is to put back the weak envious arrows they directed towards us..
Otherwise...
From Fiameta October 21, 1998
Message of Fiameta!.
We have not Completed, Rather just started our Race!
A great lesson this generation can pass on to the next is the freedom of press..
Leaving the Freedom of speech and writing that was brought forth through great Sacrifice is certainly unthinkable..
Staying up to the end with this right which was found through the sacrifice of free press journalists is mandatory..
Since the historical responsibility of this generation is to hold fast and sustain press freedom through struggle, imprisonment, and suffering and even through sacrifice, that's why it is now meeting face to face with truth..
Indeed, there are sides who couldn't admit this hard truth and wanted to hurt the free press journalist, they never leave no store unturned to harm them..
The free press journalist, on the other hand, having over come all these obstacles reached today..
Therefore, the wealth of this generation is these journalists and newspapers who are unique children of Ethiopia.
The freedom of writing that this generation cleanses through struggle has to pall on victoriously to the next generation..
And for these we have not completed, rather just started the race..
In order to save journalists form being beaten and thrown by the political storm, it's the responsibility of the generation to do its level best today and only to day by hook or by crook..
Let everyone does his own share..
The ship that aboard free press journalists continues her journey in the midst of cloudburst and blizzard..
Our wish is to see this historic journey completed, and in another age, in another time putting her anchor peacefully on to the land..
We have strong belief that this generation would pall on up to the last victorious chapter, being aware of its historic duty..
From Fiameta April 29, 1998      .
The Belgium Government Writes off Debts
Out of the 20.3 millioin American dollars Ethiopia borrowed from Belgium government, 19.3 million dollars debt has been written off. .
In order to help Ethiopia's effort to reduce proverty, the writing off agreement was signed yesterday in Adds Abab between the Finance Minister, Mr. Sufiyan Ahmed and Belgium's Development and Cooperation Minister, Ede Bawtamans.
95 percent of the debt which was written off would greatly help especially for the sectors like health, education, road and area development which the country focused, it was disclosed.
From Addis Zemen April 12, 2001
The First Private University is to be Established in Ethiopia
Investors and representatives of Universities of United States took the primary step to establish the first private University in Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on October 3, 1998, pointed out the information American embassy in Ethiopia sent.
The information from the embassy disclosed that the investors and representatives together with invited guests visited the building site of the university which is to be established on the northern part of Addis Ababa.
The invited guests observed the signed treaty that was made between the founder investors and California University (Stanislaws).
The agreement is to cooperatively establish a university for Ethiopia and surrounding countries that followed the general model of California University, and enables to give an American educational methodology.
The new university that is hoped to be opened in 1998 would design its first program to fulfill the demand of the country in business administration, accounting and finance fields, the information uncovered.
Apart from the regular degree program, the university would prepare knowledge-building certificate program for professionals at work..
From AddisZemen October 9, 1997
SPDO Dismissed Five Higher bodies Including Abate Kisho from its Central committee..
The Sidama People Democratic Organization (SPDO) ousted five higher bodies including Abate Kisho for it said they displayed inefficiency of leadership and ethical behavior..
The organization ousted Mr. Abate Kisho and the deputy chairman Mr. Biru Bale inclusive five leadership members as a measure to save the organization form the danger of deterioration, and after having wide evaluation session at Awassa town for 17 days.
These higher leadership members who have been ousted due to their inefficient leadership and ethical behavior would be accountable for all the wrong they committed in accordance to the government rule and regulation, the cadres and the leadership members disclosed in the statement they made official at the end of the evaluation session..
The individuals who were ousted from the central committee were said to abuse their power in selling and giving lands to their nears and dears, explained the statement..
Meddling in works of justice, troubling works and threatening judges, police officials and prosecutors in order to have their relatives work done through pressure, the reporter pointed out..
Besides, corrupting the government budget and properties, per-diem, procurement, bid and through other means establishing share companies in the names of their relatives, establishing coffee pulper industries and building up their own capitals, explained the leadership members and cadres, assigning their nears and dears who have no qualifications to key positions..
Moreover, through their relatives whom they assigned at toll stations, and finance offices in collaboration with merchants embezzled large amount of government money and constructed villas, business centers and just running their own selfish businesses, the leadership members and cadres disclosed in their final statements that was official..
When government salary was embezzled in the name of dead government individuals and fund allotted to Development Associations was deliberately directed to individuals benefit, these ousted leadership members gave their deaf ears out of the rule of law; and when the constitution of the country is violated and misused, doing great anti democratic deeds they were deliberately negligent, it was explained.
The leadership members and cadres agreed to curb corruption and anti democratic working ways and despotism which are impediments for the people's rapid economic development, and with the community's participation to make the recently coming district council election democratic..
Condemning the defected group form TPLF central committee, they disclosed that they would firmly struggle to strengthen SEPDF EPRDF..
From Addis Zemen June 15, 200.
Sudan Disclosed that U.S.A Warned she Would Attack Her Though Missiles
President Umer Al-Beshir, in front of many thousands of people who came out in protest, said that Washington sent a threatening message to Sudan stating that if United States Embassy is attacked anywhere, U.S. will retaliate with missile.
While United States office of the Foreign Secretariat considered it unremarkable, Al-Beshir indicated that the message was sent to him through the heads of ex-Sudanese official.
Although the detail of the message was not mentioned, he surely stated that he would retaliate, the report from Cartoum stated.
"We will wait for their second and third attack, but we work ever appeal to the Security Council..
We will use our right to retaliated..
Our retaliation will cause severe pain..
Said Beshir to this people.
When ex U.S Prosecutor general Ramse Klark who was in this public protest made a speech to the people, they were shouting Alah-Keber..
It was reported that Klark apologized the people for the missile attack, demanded compensation for the demolished industry, asked U.S to lift the ban on Sudan and called for America not to support SPLA.
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
Message of Fiameta
While the Leaders of EPLF Uttered War Boasts, Ours ... (?)
It has been months since the Ethiopian border has been violently crossed, lands taken and has been under the control of strange EPLF aggressors..
The people in that area who have been beaten by enemy hands, their humanity and citizenship humiliated, are shouting. .
Although several efforts have been made to negotiate and intermediate, the EPLF leader responded negatively to the presented resolutions.
"Even if her sun stops shining once we seize the land, we won't leave" told us the authoritarian Isayas even at the outset.
But it's not known what happened to us, it seems that we're looking forward to duck's egg under the lap of a snake, and expecting that they would abide by peace, we have had extreme patience; we're swimming in a limitless ocean.
In their side, very recently alone the president one time, at another time the office of foreign affairs, on the other hand, the Eritrean mass media assured in black and white that they won't take leave from the occupied Ethiopian territory.
They are also telling us they would win if war broke..
They are preaching that they have an organized force..
So, what are ours doing? When is people's questions pet responses? .
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
The Discussion Between Addis Ababa University Students and the Minister of Education was Adjourned without fruitful results..
The discussion held between the minister of Education and the university students in order to seek remedy for the oppositions student started claiming that their rights have not been respected, was adjourned without coming to fruition..
The discussion which was expected to seek remedy as well as answers for the questions university students raised recently claiming that their rights were not respected was adjourned because among the queries was one that states police forces should go out from the campus, and agreement could not be reached with regards to that issue..
In the discussion held at x-mas hall, the students expressed that they wanted the police to go out of the campus with out any condition, while the minister agreed with the question in principle she said that it may take some time to pull out these forces and it would be difficult to give time frame as to when they would go out.
The minister, Mr. Genet Zewdie, explained the necessity of security forces in the campus for the properties as well as students security and she reminded that if police forces are pulled out today, since these are no prepared force that could substitute it, the campus would be without security, hence, until control and training process is carried out, the police force has to stay in the security job..
Mrs. Genet who reminded that the question of continuing the publication of students' council's gazette, respecting the rights of students to gather and discuss, speak have got remedies in Thursday's meeting, the issue with regards to a change of university administration, she said she would study the proposed idea..
Many questions were raised on the part of the students, among which the main one is to make the police force leave the campus as soon as possible.
They earnestly asked that the police force leaders who beat students should be brought to justice and for a change of the university administration.
They insisted up on an urgent response for the questions they asked but it this doesn't happen they promised not to start classes and continue their opposition, up on which the representative of students was obliged to send the minister off.
In the speech the representatives made to the students just before this meeting they told that among the students who were beaten by the police forces two of them are still under treatment in the hospital while the rest returned home after the treatment..
The 46 students who were under police arrest were released that day in accordance with the discussion with the minister..
In the mean time, the ministry of Education announced that the Addis Ababa University students who stopped regular classes since lest week, have been decided to continue their regular classes as of today April 17, 2001..
In a statement the office of the Ministry sent to ENA yesterday evening, students who do not want to continue their classes would be considered leaving on their own starting from April 18, 2001, noon, and without affecting the rights of others should leave the university campus, fulfilling the formalities of withdrawal of the university..
Even if the students do not fulfill the formalities of the university, as long as they are not present in their classes it would be considered as if they left on their own will, the statement reminded..
Those students who left in this way would not be given any kind of readmission, the ministry also disclosed.
Any kind of activity that would hinder the teaching learning process should not be carried out and in order to avoid difficulties and acts perpetrated on students who are interested in learning, legal measures would be taken, the ministry warned.
The ministry, reminding that the Addis Ababa University has stopped classes since last Tuesday April 10, 2001, expressed that it has given responses to questions raised by students by difference levels of the ministry of education..
The attempt the university authorities made to talk to the students on April 10, 2001 became fruitless due to the students' disobedience to do so.
Based on the students' request, to talk to the minister of education, discussion was held on April 11, 2001 on the questions raised by the students, and statements were given by the university administration by the police with regards to the measures taken by the police that day.
Based on the agreement reached with the representative of students, the minister of education discussed the details with students on April 12, 2001, it was explained..
Addis Zemen April 17, 2001
Jiji and Aster Awoke Squabbled over the Son of General Mengistu Neway
The recently becoming popular Jiji and the legendary singer aster Awoke squabbled over the son of General Mengistu Neway, a report that reached US from America disclosed.
According to the report after Aster Awoke returned from Addis Ababa presenting a concert, she had a dispute with her lover, son of General Mengistu Neway, it reminded.
While Jiji and Aster were performing their songs one after the other in the same concert Jiji got a great applause and admiration in the part Aster was supposed to show, which made aster Furious.
In a European concert that was led by the General's son Neway Mengistu Neway who was her lover and Aster Awoke, Jiji was a hired singer.
For this accidental program detachment, the other person whom Aster considered accountable was the General's son, Neway Mengistu, so after they finished the concert, Aster furiously told Jiji that from then on they wouldn't work together, and commanded her to get out of the dressing room, when Neway Mengistu intervened between them to calm down the situation, but since he couldn't said he would also go out with Jiji, debt the dressing room and went out with Jiji.
When Aster observed this completely unexpected situation started to study their relationship, she found out that they had an affair apart from purely business relations.
It was then Naway and Aster's love affair came to an end.
It was after this that Jiji being with Neway Mengistu started making an effort to release her new album.
In her new album, the song under the title Abo shemane, the person whom she sings to as he's mine he's mine is for Neway, the idea individuals who know them both closely in America reported to our newspaper.
Jiji's album was sold in America in cassettes and CD while in Addis Ababa she had no agent so the cassette was widely illegally sold with copies of her photo attached to it, the report reached us disclosed.
Jiji's album in cassette as well as CD was released by Neway Mengistu's support one month before Aster released hers.
In this competition, Jiji couldn't get legal agent in Addis, our sources from America disclosed.  .
From Fiameta June 30, 1999
Why has the Conspiracy Strengthened on Kibur Gena
Mr. Kebur Gena, who was elected with a high number of votes in the 20th plenary session of the General assembly of Addis Ababa Chamber of Commerce, held on February 28, 1998 resigned on July 8, after having undergone 6 consecutive evaluating sessions, it was disclosed.
They situation made the business community and the members of the chamber very sorrowful..
Mr. Aschalew Haile who was the new elect deputy president of the Chamber accused him by saying Mr. Kebur Gena, committed authoritarian leadership and has no leadership efficiency..
The new deputy president was not only elected democratically by the business community but also had put great pressure on the coup de tat of the leadership, internal sources indicated..
According to these sources, "The rules and regulations of the chamber or other related rules states that when the president resigns the deputy takes his position; but this didn't happen, they said.      .
These internal sources stated that Mr. Kibur Gena was elected with the presedent of General Assembly and members of the chamber, and so is when he leaves or resigns, but this didn't happen..
The members of the chamber elected Kebur Gena as their president and not Aschalew Haile, they said..
Nothing was said as to why the deputy of Mr. Kebur Gena, Mr. Tekla Biru, who was elected by the business community, substituted him..
While Mr. Kebur Gena was in America recently, he expressed about the prevalent condition our country is in to foreign business community, but he said this war can't prevent us from investing, inviting foreign investors, it's to be recalled..
He has done a lot of work for the chamber of commerce since his election..
He had supported the business community to use the necessary e-mail and internet services..
It's to be recalled that Mr. Kibur Gena completed his education in America and he used to work in ECA. .
After wards he produced his own software's and has been doing business activities..
Leave alone to indulge in corruption, Mr. Kebur Gena has been opposing those who are deeply involved in it..
The plenary session of the General Assembly is held every two years, the election for the next and 21st presidential and Board members of Directors is expected to be held in the coming February 1999..
The new elects who contributed for the deposition of Kebur Gena from his post would be leading the chamber of commerce for the coming six months..
After 6 months, the elections for the General Assembly of chamber of commerce would be held, let us stay alive till them.     .
From Fiameta July 10, 1998
The Curtain of the Embarrassing scene is Uncovered!
Prisoners who were about to testify against Dr. Taye on December 11, 1998 returned, receiving an appointment for January 21 as Judges who were to see Dr. Taye, Mr. Gebretsadik Hailemariam and Mr. Kebede Desta's case didn't appear at the tribunal..
On January 21, 1998 Dr. Taye and the rest came from correction House at 9:00.
The judges appeared before the court session at 10:20..
That day the individual, who appeared to testify, Major Moges Assefa told the court the severe beating and whipping he underwent.
Major Moges Assefa while giving his words to the court, told the unexplainable suffering he was undergoing for they claimed he knew that Dr. Taye Woldesemayat, Mr. Gebretasadik Haile Mariam and Mr. Kebede Desta run illegal political organization that plot to forcefully oust the government..
That his suffering was immense, and that he used to be a member of ex-army and completed his rehab program and has been working in a farmland, and civilians kidnapped him without any reason and was thrown to a dark room an as a result of harsh beating his tooth was pulled out..
Then this wiper tied him with a rope, turned him upside down and beat him, underwent the suffering of electric shock; they told him to testify against Dr. Taye and if he does so, they told him that he would be free, this he didn't wide if form the court..
In addition, he told that when he was first caught a citizen wrist watch which was bought for 440 Birr and two cans of onion best seed which was bought for 220 Birr and cash which was in his pocket was taken from him..
All these brigandage and robbery was conducted so as to forcefully make him act in the drama they perpetrated and oblige him to present false information to the Ethiopian people, and they told him if he does so, they will release him freely..
If you express that Dr. Taye and the other are illegal leaders of AAPO political organization in front of a television camera and teach the public, in which case I didn't want to mislead the Ethiopian people so I was not willing..
In addition, he told that he met the young boy Yoseph Biresaw who testified on the radio and television in the prison, and Yoseph had severely been beaten and told him that he was given a script to study against Dr. Taye and the rest, which is going to be acted on the TV. .
At last, he asked the court to show the serious bodily harm, but the court said "it doesn't have any use to show this now..
But next time he was given an appointment for March 5 to show and his broken tooth, too; his broken arm and whippin.
Until this report is presented, Major Moges' family had no idea where the individual is and in what kind of situation he's found..
From Fiameta January 28, 1998
The 3rd Plenary Session of Sympathizer Groups of Ethiopia, AAPO and Professor Asrat was Conducted.
Leader of the right flank, Nekatibeb's leadership was also annulled.
Sympathizer groups of Ethiopia, AAPO and Professor Asrat met on October 21, 2001 in Addis Ababa at Girar Hotel and after having listened to and investigated the report of the executive committee of the board, have passed a resolution, the statement pointed out..
The statement pointed out that after AAPO's leader His Excellency Professor Asrat Woildeyes died, the central committee didn't call an urgent national assembly to assign someone in his place, so whatever tasks that have been done since then are illegal for that the organization was with out a leader.
Moreover, when it was asked to call national assembly that would enable to elect an efficient and able leader and evaluate the organization's weak and strong sides, and take measures of amendment, Nekatibeb defended and became an impediment by staying long enough in power, was mentioned in the report.
Moreover it condemned the right flank leader Nekatibeb's act of dismantling the Moresh Musical band and assigning even in the central committee of Addis Ababa council proponents of TPLF, paving the way for the destruction of he organization..
In addition since he used to organization's income which was gotten from various sources regardless of the finance rules and regulation, and objected the investigation of it by external auditors; dismissed the support giving committees that are contributing a lot..
Besides, the sympathizer groups of Ethiopia, AAPO and Professor Asrat passed a five point stand point and resolution at the end of the meeting, the first of which was unanimously condemning leader of the right flank's non-disciplined leadership and until the national assembly is called up on and decide, his leadership in AAPO was lifted.
Secondly, 1) Mr. Admasu Mekete  2) Mr. Sahle Seifu whom the assembly considered close collaborators of him dismissed them from any activity of the party in order to stop their destructive working procedure and decided to bring them to justice before the assembly.    .
3) In order to maintain and ensure the legal existence of AAPO and its acceptability and honor among the people, the executive committee of sympathizers would call up on a general meeting of members, supporters, followers and pass a resolution about the issues discussed in the assembly. .
Look at the full text of the stand pointed and resolution of the Assembly of sympathizers groups of Ethiopia, AAPO and Professor Asrat passed. .
From Fiameta October 27, 1999
There's no Arm that Bends for EPLF!
In any yardstick, the invasion committed which results from EPLF's conceit and contempt is not to be supported..
EPLF, whose basic characteristics are arrogance and conceit, has long ago not only an imbalanced but narrow out look on Ethiopians..
While it is not possible to avoid these contempt that has been impregnated for long in the conscience with dialogue and negotiation, it has become timely to talk to them with the language they understand.
A measure that is taken for the sake of Ethiopian dignity would enable one to receive appreciation in the eyes of history and generation.
Therefore, there's no arm that bends for EPLF..
This was what we used to say, and the word we repeat today..
"Preparedness is for a patriot, Victory is God's"
From Fiameta June 3, 1998      .
The Inflation on Prices of Medicine Embittered Peopl.
The individuals who opened and sell medicines in private drug stores (pharmacy) in Oromia and Southern people Administrative Regions at Shone, Durame, Alaba, Ade, Shashemene, Arsi Negele and Ziway towns, embittered people by inflating the price of medicines as they wished starting from anty headache pills up ot syrups, the reporter who sent us this from the places pointed out.
The Tobia reports who are in the region spoke to the individuals who queued at the doors of the pharmacies reported that it was government clinics, health centers and hospitals that facilitated for this pillage.
After patients were diagnosed, they were told, "we don't have this medicine, buy from outside," so they were obliged to buy expensively.
Our reporter asked some of the owners of private pharmacies about the issue and they explained that apart from the tax they pay, they are asked to pay additional money while going to their respective sub-regions at Tikur Wuha toll station in the name of "Ethiopian Transitional government" work and city Development ministry, Sidama Awasa Miscellaneous Tax, there are people who collect tax for the items we bought with legal receipt from Awasa Medicine Distributing Organization, so in order to compensate that the added price on medicines, they explained to him. .
From Tobia October 2, 1997
Editoria.
Disrespect and Mockery in Judicatur.
In the words of what people of law tell us, in the countries where thrones of democracy reigns and countries where democracy took a royal seat, judicature is precious.
If the citizen is done wrong, if its rights is taken out of the law and order he would go to the order of judicature.
Indeed, all judgments can not necessarily be mentioned as fair.
Because fairness means right judicature while judgment is a decision to be taken based on presented evidence.
Therefore, the given judgment could be affected by officials of the railing party or a covered evidence presented by a flatterer lawyer..
The judiciary court that is established in any dictatorial regime can not be said to be free from political influence.
The familiarization and multitudinous of decisions that smell government and which are taken to be instrumental to the political aim make people not to put faith fully in the supremacy of law..
One can see the outlook of people on the judiciary system at present.
As Mr. Meles witnessed earlier, in this country most legislative bodies who said they took care of justice sell justice..
The ex-minister of justice (In actual fact the minister of justice) said this age cannot be the golden age of justice.
Indeed, it's, as Mr. Meles liked to prove to us a time where "justice is suppressed and mocked at."
Mentioning very few points as reasons alone may give the answer.
First, people of law who had skill, capability and experience had gone out.
Second, those who liked friendship with the government, who judge in accord with the weather condition, dominated the scene of selling justice..
Third it's difficult to say there is any work done with conscience and in respect to the law..
Justice by itself makes you erroneous.
It's possible to widely see the details in this way.
In our belief, the very first reason is since the regime doesn't have quality and clarity, thinking of justice by itself makes you erroneous..
As everything has become shaky from its basement!
From what we read on papers that the government led parties publish, with regards to major bodies that are clad red to sell justice, there are confusion and disagreement.
One official has filled its throne, with full of relatives and families, according to the news we found from other publication..
If this is really true, this by itself is an act of mocking at justice.
Therefore, it's undisputable that there is a lot of damage in the area of justice.
While what Mr. Meles said was all right, it is to be underscored that the judgments displayed by these court sessions and judges lacked Justice..
Especially those political oppositions group leaders who are said to be prisoners of conscience could be seen as victims of these people's judgments.
People of law say "Delayed justice is injustice".
People are suffering behind bars for the last six years without being changed, and even if changes are put against them, the court proceedings are delayed for one reason or another.
The cases of individuals suspected of the red terror who came from the Amhara region and the sources of Christianity, are going to be seen in after six years in 1998.
These people, if found not guilty after their cases are seen in the court, could be sent out by saying to them "you are free to go".
While for one region school of different levels, health institutions, roads, factories etc. are planned and established for the past six years, for the unfortunate (shall we say for the one who didn't struggle?) Prisons have been formed here and there.
They have become full of prisoners..
Although the number of prisoners is unknown, it could be generally estimated in thousands.
All these are proofs for the remoteness of justice, demolition of equality are seen day after day.
While the working procedure of judiciary system in this country is becoming pensive and controversial, a question has been raised by TPLF/EPRDF to Canada, United States, some African countries and Europe.
The question was to be handed over those individuals, who used to work with the previous dergue regime and now living as political refugees, getting citizenship and in working terms in these countries..
What justice have the suspected individuals who are imprisoned got.
How many of them have got a chance to defend their cases in the court?
Hence, these countries need to seriously ask the lack of justice, suppression of individual rights, delayed justice, etc, when taking in to consideration the question they were asked.
On the other hand legally appropriate institutions such as EHRC, Lawyers' Association, Journalists' Association and other legally appropriate groups and opposition forces should intensify their struggles so that an order of justice rules over and for fair judicature.
The people should no more be convenient for a government that comes with disrespect and mockery in justice and judicature..
From Tobia September 4, 1997
Democratic Order Through our Struggl.
In a democratic government structure it is not without any reason that government work departments such as legislative body or lawmaker, court of law and interpreter of the law are formed. .
The purpose of making one control the other and maintaining the balance in government working procedure and leadership is to curb the strength and pressure of especially legislator who holds in his hands the finance and military force which can be out of control and dominate the public.
The experienced democratic countries use this government method of working procedure as a mechanism of controlling and maintaining balance.
In our age, this tripartite government working procedure, the "fourth force" which is the free press added, would make government and officials to be governed by the laws previously drawn upon by the legislative body, so that there won't be government tasks that are done in obscurity and behind the curtain, for the free press follows and makes it public; if government officials commit any transgression out of the drawn up legislation and the authority they have, there's order in place that could bring them to justice..
When we look at the situation in our county although for the consumption of propaganda when we look at the situation in our country, although for the consumption of propaganda there's a council elected by the people, a government which held power through public election, free judicature, free economy, free press, in actual practice the situation we see is a force which came to power through gun force, and carrying on its shoulder the ideology of revolutionary democracy and people who came from the same source..
In the name of free economy, the party's economic institutions are strengthened.
In the name of free press, the publications of the ruling party are disseminated, even with the support of government structures..
In the name of free election EPRDF controls the political forum all by itself..
This group controls council's legislative body..
Including the Prime Minister, cadres and members of the legislative body that have key and decisive role in government bureaucracy who are of the owner of the gun, in the council as "representatives of people" decide and have them decided through the legislative body..
This legislative body trains and recruits judges and proposes them for promotion and then sits in the council and approves their promotion.
So, is it possible to say the tripartite government bodies (the legislative body, interpreter of the law and court of law) are structured and the situation has been conducive for the development of democracy.
In a government regime, the order of judicature is structured and is said to be working independent free form influence and pressure, so that citizens in the relations they may have with one another and the government wouldn't receive unfair treatment, which is out of the legislation, and so that if this happens, they could go to the judicature and ask for justice..
In our situation, to take root such procedure, the government and official discharge their responsibilities based on the legislation and rules that had already passed on, and if they astray from this, to be accountable by the legislation, can be said there is no interest in this kind of working procedure..
And this didn't happen without a reason.
The ones who control the leadership of government used to claim that they were progressive leftist politicians, until international situations change they officially claim to be "followers of Albanian Communism", and when international situation changes, they wisely claim to be guided by "free economy" and entered the camp of the modernists..
Their ideology is still "free economy" which is soaked by leftist outlook.
In our belier, it is not possible to get democrats from Albanian Communists.
Indeed, that's why today the inclination of suppressing national reconciliation and following the way of confrontation is seen..
Let's mention the outlook of these people concerning human rights and law from one document of revolutionary democracy.
"Making the constitution of the country form the outset assuring the majority of the people's rights.
Based on this, the different legislative decree that would pass on would become assuring the rights of the majority of the people, and should become impediment to acts of enemies.
The institutions that keep and assure the constitution and legislations would be structured in such a way as to keep people's rights..
When the ruling class attempted to curb the rights of the majority of the people, it's possible to punish and subdue each of their impeding actions.   .
When they violate the constitution and the legislation in the form of rebellion attempted to suppress the rights of the wide population, it is possible to incite the majority of the people and destroy them.
"Based on the revolutionary democrats' (MLLT communists) elucidation, a law stands and serves not for all citizens but for "wide population or majority of the people". .
A law is controller of "the enemy of the wide population"
That's why to day oppositions are suffering behind bars, given names as committing different crimes.
It's based on this polity that the ones who have had different dreams about our country other than EPRDF's, especially TPLF's, are becoming targets of propaganda by being given various names.
As we repeatedly said free judicature is a forum that would enable them based on the legislation to request to return their rights when it's violated.
Today, a worker is sacked from his job in administrative decision; his rights are violated.
The case of a worker that should get a verdict in two months' time due to meetings of court of sessions would be postponed for years.
The district officials cold seal anyone's home.
They could throw away things from the house.
There's no speedy working to oppose the working procedure and seek justice from the judiciary order.
These days it's common saying "It's better to be accused than to accuse to seek justice," for people lose faith in the judiciary system.
The courts that were believed to be places of keeping rights have become locations where people suffer..
When salt becomes flavorless what would you use to sweet on sauce?
The situation seems that the legislative body prepares a way to violate civilian's rights as it wishes, take what ever illegal measures without accountability.
No other name could be given to the act of suffocating the curt of sessions where there's no shortage of legal professionals, other than mockery on the rights of people.
The only remedy to it is struggling to be subdued to the people's needs..
Let's bring democratic people's order through our struggle..
From Tobia October 2, 1997
In Order to Control the Malaria Epidemic that Widely Attacks People Establishing an Independent Office is crucial
Malaria Epidemic is now deep-rooted plague that takes a way many people's lives all over Ethiopia.
Although malaria has long started spreading not only in the lowlands but also in the highlands, including Addis Ababa, driving people out of jobs, no successful measures have been taken so far to control a deadly epidemic such as malaria..
It was age since malaria plague was known to be deadly and that's way an independent malaria eradication office was formed with its own professionals and budgets, and that's why malaria was never out of control during that time.
This was because controlling mechanisms such as spraying medicine in all potentially tsetse fly infestation areas..
Nonetheless, after some years the office was demolished and made to operate within the ministry of health, so no independent body could take responsibility to control malaria, and as a result, malaria epidemic has become threatening..
What has to be seen in relation to this is the fact that the medicine given to protect malaria is no more healing for it adapted to it, so it is questionable whether it's going to be eradicated with the newly arriving medicines..
Hence, before this plague goes out of control, we recommend that government give due attention to control and eradicate this unparalleled epidemic through establishing an independent office.      .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
The Preparation Completed to Fix the Statue that Returns from Rome
The preparation that has been underway to fix the statue that returns from Rome are completed, Tigray culture and Tourism and Information bureau disclosed.
Mr. Mesele Zeleke, the bureau Culture Department Head said that the when statue that was taken to Rome during the Italian aggression is returned, a well has been dug to put it next to the present standing obelisk.
Mentioning the information he has so far, the head of the bureau pointed to that in order to insure the strength of the base of the well which was dug French experts made a study and the earth has now been paved and it's possible to plant the obelisk when it comes.
The Emperor Yohannes International Airport which was established in Axum town and was started giving service recently where the obelisk comes by plane through civil Aviation, has been studied by experts as to whether the run way road could withstand and proved to be so, Mr. Mesele pointed out.
From Addis Zemen June 18, 2001 .
The International Refugee Organizations Disclosed that Ethiopians were Beaten During Their Stay in Lebanon
The recently returned 30 Ethiopians who went to Lebanon in search of jobs were beaten and were suffering during their stay their.
The French News Service quoting the organization reported the day before yesterday that 36 females who came to Addis Ababa from Lebanon underwent a first degree examination and it was proved that they were suffering from beating during their stay there.
According to the spokes person Mr. Jin Philip Chewziy, the returnees were beaten by Lebanon citizens and some of them had even bone fracture as well as one female was exposed to mental lunacy as result to injurious assault she befell her..
The females were from 20 to 30 years of age and except three of them all went from cities.
According to the organization's disclosure, at the moment there are approximately from 12 to 14 thousand Ethiopians in Lebanon as house maids.
The refugee organization said that it is working in collaboration with women's affairs Bureau so as to make the women not go out illegally from their country and to create awareness of the problem as well as help the returnees..
Only between 1997 up to 1999 alone 7 female deaths out of those who went out to different Arab countries were reported in Newspapers, and the organization also reminded that Ethiopian Television showed the picture of a female burned with acids and this is only the tip of the iceberg and in order to know more about the problem, continental study is necessary, it pointed out.
Similarly Kenyan and Eritrean Females are suffering, too, the messenger of the organization in Addis Ababa, Mera Seze, presented a written report, it disclosed. .
From Addis Zemen March 2, 200.
EPRDF Disclosed that It's Prepared to Discuss with Ethiopian Democratic Forces Coalition about Election Issues
EPRDF accepted the question Ethiopian Democratic Forces Coalition presented to EPRDF regarding the upcoming election issues, and expressed its preparedness to discuss it's disclosed..
"Abiyotawi Democracy" newspaper quoting office of EPRDF council reported yesterday that EPRDF is, on its part, completing expected preparations to work together with all political parties which are participating in the election process and work all political parties which are participating in the election process and work collaboratively in all tasks that strengthen the democratization of the election.
Based on he EPRDF council's decision, the Ethiopian Democratic Forces Coalition informed that it presented election ideas to Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, the organization's secretary general, in mid-may.
EPRDF expressed its readiness to discuss up on the ideas to the current chairman of the coalition, the newspaper reported.
In a related development, the EPRDF council in its recently conducted regular session disclosed that in order to make the third Nation-Wide election to be democratic, the front started activities that enabled it discharge its responsibilities.
The activity going on to ensure the eligibility of the election on the one hand, include facilitation of situations in which the people would register up to giving votes and make wide and active participation, while on the other hand, it includes to bring about a democratic election process working together with groups that participate in the election, the newspaper elaborated.
The council decided that EPRDF should make the necessary cooperation to bring about democratic election process, it disclosed.
Based on this, the newspaper mentioned that EPRDF started its activities to make all the people of the country play active and crucial role in all election activities from the beginning up to the end, the newspaper reported.
From Addis Zemen August 26, 2004
Mohammud Ahmed Returned disappointed from Canada and America
The renown artist Mohammud Ahmed who went to Canada and America on the occasion of New Year returned disappointed, it was disclosed..
Artist Mohammud Ahmed has been losing its fame from time to time for it was told that he gave support to EPRDF, was present in TPLF anniversary and after that, used by the TPLF/EPRDF to disseminate their propaganda in public Medias.
Formerly when he went to Europe, he encountered oppositions..
Before he went to Canada flyers were disseminated in Toronto.
These flyers reached Immigration and other authorities.
The title of the statement in the flying papers goes "A Betrayer wouldn't stand and sing in front of Nationalist Ethiopians.".
Moreover, he statement that disseminated in Canada – Toronto says "the once renown an applauded artist Mohammud Ahmed, has committed harm on the people's prestige belittled his custom and culture and collaborated with EPRDF and displeased his fellow people, and a betrayer, now collaborating with the EPFDF's ambassador in Toronto and enemies, of Ethiopia is going to prepare an entertainment evening, so all nationalist Ethiopians are called not to attend this betrayer's entertainment party, so that it becomes a fiasco.
on the other hand, Mohammud Ahmed renouncing this claim disseminated another flyer entitled "my fellow people who live in Canada."
In his message, Mohammud detailed stating "As every person has its own gift, I also have one skill given by God's grace, developed by efforts and enriched by the support of Ethiopian people, and unless to defame that, I, mohammud Ahmed is an artist who have neither education in politics, nor the skill, nor the interest and am neither supporter nor otherwise of any political party what so ever..
In response to this, "at one time we all know that you were a respected artist..
However, our complaints and grudges ...you publicly belittled our people's prestige custom and culture, and since you, collaborating with TPLF/EPRDF, saddened put to shame people... we're against you and those TPLF/EPRDF employees and betrayers whom you called friends, and your preparation to throw a concert, "and summarized, "ask Ethiopian people an apology in public". .
The concert of Mohamnmud Ahmed on the eve of Christmas concluded in Toronto with such a fiasco.   .
On the other hand, the concert that was to be conducted in northern America has faced similar kind to opposition, but this one was different in the sense that the oppositions went to the pertinent authority and file a charge against Mohammud claiming that he didn't pay the necessary tax to the American government during his previous concerts he conducted there, so his journey to the united states was hampered, the report reached us form north America disclosed. .
From Fiameta February 4, 1998
The Federal police Commission Disclosed that there was no damage on Human live
The Federal Police Crime Prevention Department, in the statement it released with regards to the clash between police and Addis Ababa University, reminded that these had been a little misunderstanding between Addis Ababa University students and the administration and the cause for this was the administration's negligence not to respond at the proper time and, on the other hand, the administrative issues in general are not treated in a proper manner, it said..
Although Police was aware of the requests to be put forwarded by the students before a week and reminded the administration to resolve, the university administration didn't respond as soon as it was aware of the problem..
Those who fear that the clash between Addis Ababa University Sidist kilo campus students and the police may aggravate and officials who coordinated the surrounding police force placed two police members in to the University premise, the statement disclosed.
When the Federal Police Crime prevention Department realized that the decision to send police members to the university premise was wrong and tried to remedy it, however, students took illegal measures and in order to resolve the situation, it took prevention measures, it disclosed.
In the measures taken, certain students had light injuries of beating and few students who were going about out of the normal procedure were for the time being were taken under arrest, and then released after wards when the situation calmed down. .
The statement proved that unlike some news organizations who exaggerated, these hasn't been any damage on lives of students, and also reminded students to put forward any question through legal procedures and expect responses, and for this they head to struggle, and underscored that participating in any other illegal measures wouldn't be supported.
And finally, it reminded that as seen occasionally, the activities that go on outside their premise, out of the normal legal procedures, doesn't have acceptability.
From Addis Zemen April 14, 2001
"The Clash Between Ethiopia and Eritrea is Said to Hamper Sudanese Peace Talks"
Sudanese Foreign Minister said that the clash between Ethiopia and Eritrea is going to impede the peace talks of Sudan and the rebel groups, which is expected to convene in Addis Ababa next August, reuter reported.
"These Clashes have no use for the stability of the two countries as well as the regions," and the minister, further continued, "The only thing it may bring about is increasing the number of refugees," Ray-Al-Am reported.
Sudan has been the home for more than half a million refugees of Ethiopia and Eritrea who have been victims of the previous clashes, the report said.
Ethiopia and Eritrea are members of IGHAD who initiated the dialogue to stop the clashes between Sudan and the rebel group, who were fighting for 15 years.
Approximately 1.3 million people were killed since the new clash began in 1983.
The Christian-dominated but also pagan-inclusive southern people liberation army, SPLA, wants to be alienated form the Arab northerners and have an autonomous administration.
In May, during the peaceful talk in Kenya, the right for self-determination with the intervention of international inspection was granted to the region.
Although the two sides would convene a second-round dialogue in August in Ethiopia, the foreign minister doubts whether IGHAD could do this peace talk mainly due to the border clashes between the two sides.
It is regrettable that IGHAD couldn't resolve the conflict that surfaced between the tow member states," said foreign minister Ismael"While Kenyan foreign Minister, Bonaya Guwedana, pays official visit to Sudan on Saturday and "there will be a discussion on Ethiopia and Eritrean clashes, its impact on the stability and security of the region, and the peaceful dialogue between Sudan and rebel groups, which was expected to take place in Addis Ababa," told reuters..
Some Sudanese Officials would rather like the next round peaceful dialogue take in Nairobi or Kampala than Addis Ababa, reuters reported..
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
Bole Airport Widening Project work could be Delayed by Rain
The General Manger of sub-project work for Bole International Airport Widening work, Sunap Chang, in the statement he gave, stated that due to the possible heavy rain that could come in the future, the completion of the work could be delayed by certain months..
One of the works from the entire package, the runway toad building, was given last March 1997 to South Korean Kengnam construction..
The General Manager Chang pointed out that up to now his company has completed 40% of the construction and his plan is to complete all the work and hand it over next November 1999..
The entire construction work is expected to cost 200 million Birr.
According to some experts, the black cotton soil of the area has made the digging work difficult and created additional time delay..
The Addis Ababa International Airport building project general manager Mr. Hailu G/Mariam on his part disclosed that the project is to be done in three building packages and the debt money came from Africa Development Bank, Kuwait, OPAQUE, NORDIG development Bank and Bundia Arab Bank of dept..
Mr.Hailu pointed out that the first work package which is 3800 meters long run way was given to Kengnam organization, the second work-terminal building project to Saudi Arabian Mohammed Abdumonig Alkarafi and his sons, the third work-Navigation complimenting work has not yet been given. .
From Fiameta January 8, 1999
The Discontinued Addis Ababa-Gohatsion Transport service was made to commerce its service
The army that came from Liberia completing its duty of peace-keeping, the 107 major members who closed the road that takes to Gohatsion from Addis Ababa yesterday while asking the money government gave to be handed over to them, has now let the road commence its service due to the agreement they reached, the ministry of Defense disclosed.
In the statement it sent, the ministry of defense disclosed that the money that was given as a reward to the members of the army who efficiently completed their duties of government peace-keeping in various places, has been given timely and in a manner that would build their financial capacity.
The office of the ministry used to give the money that was given as a reward to the soldiers by hand who came at the completion to their duties, but since it observed that the money was expended in a short time, without being used productively, the government believes that with an agreement made with the soldiers themselves, the money could be put in a bank account of each soldiers and the owner can use the money wherever he wanted to.   .
In the mean time, those major members whose quests got proper response, blocking ways on the road of Gohatsion yesterday didn't have what so ever no connection with political issues; since they realized that such kind of engagement was found improper, they discussed and agreed with their immediate bosses and returned to their regular jobs.
The ministry of Informationit would like to disclose using this opportunity that it continues its usual procedure of handing over the money as reward to the owners as they wanted it, and in accordance to the discussion and agreement reached, the discontinued transport service, continues as usual.
From Addis Zemen July 4, 2005
The Assassinator of Kinfe, Major Tsehaye's where about is obscure.
The Assassinator of Kinfe Gebre Medhin, the ex-security head, Major Tsehaye Woldeselassie who was under arrest since last May 2001 and his not being brought to justice is dangerous, committee of Ethiopian political prisoners Unity disclosed.
In the written statement the committee sent to ZePress, it disclosed that not filing charges as yet on Major Tsehaye woldeselassie is violating the law.
The statement which claimed that the prisoner's fate was held confidentially would lead to different suspicions, and the EPRDF-controlled Radio Fana's pretext that the major couldn't appear to justice for he was injured, was to be condemned, it said.
Although the death of Kinfe Gebremedhin, the head of Security was the result of the division of TPLF, it's been mystified, and even the Prime Minister, Meles Zenawi, too, should be asked, most accused, it said.
While the issue was this, attemptitint to cover up the charge would be violating the accused individual's rights, said the report, and the kind of working procedure seen with regards to this case showed once again that violation of the law is a common task for EPRDF, it said. .
After Major Tsehaye committed the death crime not only has he been officially accused over nine months now, but also his whereabouts has been obscured..
Tsehaye who was born in western Tigray at a place called Adiawola in the special place Adeyabe Mender, and the late Kinfe joined the struggle in 1976 at a time EPRP, EDU ElF and Dergue were attacking TPLF; during that time the late Kinfe was lieutenant leader in the 22nd infantry force while Tsehaye was captain leader, but after victory there was no work opportunity where Knife and the late Tsehaye work together, their history explained.
From ZePress February 6, 2002.
In Oromia Towns Education would be given in Amharic
This year in the different towns of Oromia region there has been pre preparation so as to give education in Amharic in the baby's mother tongue and has now been practical, the news it reached us pointed out.
The different nation-nationalities found in Nazareth, Shashement, Nekemt, were made to learn in Amharic due to the failure of the education in the last five years as revealed by parents and their children of each city and teachers of each school, and because government permits; similar activities have started in Oromia towns where various nationalities live together, it was disclosed..
More than 90% of children who were not Oromifa speakers an who were deprived of the international and national right that allows children to learn in their mother tongue, the repeated request their parents put forward to officials of Oromia region were neglected an for the last five years, teachers' knowledge, students' time and people's money were unfairly spent, the complaint reached to very critical stage, it said.
Due to this, the regional officials passed an order to make pre-preparation for students to learn in the language the want, but before that to investigate whether the question was raised from the people, whether the complaint was presented by representatives of parents and whether the complainers were really students' parents.
But some groups related the parents' complaint that they made legally in their rights to do so with crime and conspiracy and claimed as if it was "the measure taken in hatred of Oromifa" and considered as there were no complaint from the people; in the pretext of being sympathizers they were disseminating the reflection of their own selfish narrow feeling and interest, it was disclosed by the report it reached us..
The complainers, however, said "our request was presented without violating the rights of Oromo people, without touching its spiritual and moral feelings and with decency, so we are rather proud, not embarrassed about it."
While the people have the right to complain to government representatives individually, in groups, through representatives, demonstrations and public meeting saying "we're done wrong or our rights have been violated", at a time the complainers were presenting their case and even after response was a given to them, these individuals were disseminating rumors underground to the public, "the Amhara riflemen through AAPO, Amharas whose benefits have lost put forward the Tigrean and Eritrean riflemen as forerunners rose to suppress the Oromo people again," they said.
Moreover, they even say "strangers" blaming and calling names arrogantly, it was pointed out.
But the complaint these people put forward includes the Oromo, Gurage, Tigrean, Kenbata, welayta, etc. and in general it includes the different nationalities that live in the towns..
These groups haven't stopped their efforts to thwart the decision passed to start teaching in Amharic since 1998 especially in Nazareth, the information our reporter sent us form the place explained..
Although in a teachers' meeting held in the zonal education bureau on August 6, 1997 an idea that said "students were made to choose the Amharic language due to the influence of teachers and anti-oromifa propaganda.
It is the child, not the parents who must choose in which language to learn," an idea with lame reason giving it a political touch was presented but the teachers didn't accept the idea, it was disclosed.           .
Previously teachers Eastern Shoa Zone conducted a week's meeting and decided to use whatever means not to make Amharic language the language of learning, internal sources disclosed to our reporter.
"If we permit today to teach in Amharic it means that our political power has been snatched away and, therefore, this should never happen," was the decision that passed and party cadres were assigned to work together with officials of the education bureau, it was pointed out..
The cadres even approached some parents whom they thought have been popular and asked them, "Why do you want to teach your son in Amharic while you are Oromo".
For this question, the parents, "Although we are Oromos, our children haven't gained any result for the last five years through learning in Oromifa, so we want them to learn in the official language and communicative language of the people, Amharic," was the precise response they gave..
In general, in the decision they made again, the people approved its standpoint, but the form filled by parents and students could be intrigued, so the people should follow attentively, these information sources disclosed to our reporter..
In the mean time, Mr. Mitslale Dengel Muluneh who mainly contributed for the permission of learning in Amharic in Nazareth town and who was coordinating parents' committee was arrested..
The cause of his arrest as it was told by the authority who took the action was it was it was the case of a sport teacher who was found dead while he was working in a public school, although the people of the area said that in the activity conducted in the town to learn in Amharic, he represented the committee of parents of the town and persistently followed up with the zonal administrative officials, and it was due to this, most people said..
The Amharic language that was permitted to be given in the present year, in some schools (for example, Dejene Sime Primary and junior secondary school) parents were told when they went to have their children registered, that "priority is given to children taking Oromifa language.
We don't know when Amharic starts" they misled and engage parents in bureaucratic muddle..
The issue of giving education in the regional language has been problematic for long in Harar, Jijiga, Nazareth, Debrezeit, Ambo, Jimma, Nekemte and other areas where multinationalities are living together.    .
Due to this in some regions some parents have been sending their children paying expensive school fees to private schools that give their lessons in Amharic.
Even the area officials send their children to areas where education is given in Amharic and to the so-called "best" schools.
The children of the poor who have no choice, however, learn in Oromifa, if they can, but if not, would hold the fate of being unemployed..
It's to be recalled that in the last five years, many teachers from various parts of the Ethiopian regions were sacked from work just because they struggled to keep the freedom of education, and in the pretext that they don't know the language of the region, and that they oppose the educational policy. .
From Tobia October 2, 1997
We had a different stand from Meles on Sovereignty" ANDO
ANDO members who stood beside Mr. Meles at a time when the central committee had created a faction said that with regards to sovereignty they had a different stand than that of Meles Zenawi and similar belief with the faction group like Mr. Tewlde and others.
Mr. Tewolde W/mariam and others who were ousted from TPLF central Committee, for an article they wrote on Reporter magazine under the title "The Hide and Seek Drama of Meles and Polit Bureau of ANDO", ANDO members gave responses in the same magazine, reporter, that the difference was so loud and clear and explained the different stand that was in the process.
"This difference has even become much obvious after the ‘Technical Arrangement' document that was presented as a peaceful remedy that could resolve the Ethio-Eritrean conflict.
The document more or less divided the leadership into three sides; the first side has held an idea that was propounded by Meles.
The second side was the standpoint led by Tewolde Woldemariam; the third side was to be termed as the stand of ANDO," and continued the explanation of the ANDO, and elucidate the standpoint of the three sides.
"The standpoint propounded by Meles strongly believed that our sovereignty should be respected and for this it says that since it has our sovereignty respected, let us take the document as it is and peacefully have them returned our land; and in relation to this let's resolve the problem peacefully and struggle the anti-democracy and corruption that reigns with in us; after all, the fate of our country is decided upon by our internal things so we should give special focus," ANDO reminded Mr. Meles' stand by coloring it and described Tewolde's and other side's standpoint as follows.  .
"the second stand was held by Tewolde and siye; this side propounded that the document doesn't have our sovereignty respected, so we don't accept it, it said; the proponents of this stand were also of the opinion that we should talk about EPLF's aggression and should never talk about EPRDF's weakness, which they gave great emphasis," and continued that when Mr. Siye Abrha expressed that they have profited from the war, the group was defending by shouting "Hurray" sort of war chant, they said; and thirdly and finally explaining the standpoint of ANDO it said.
"The third was the stand propounded by the leadership of ANDP; ANDP had a different stand with regards to whether the document would be able to make our sovereignty respected.
It also told a stand saying that the document does not make our sovereignty respected.
In this regard, it had similar stand with Tewolde and the rest.
However, with regards to the question of anti-democrac and corruption it had basically different stand from that of Tewolde and the rest," it said.
ANDO which explained in detail the stands that were apparent in the discussion, and its own sand which propounded that the document doesn't make our sovereignty respected, have surprised all who read the article, for the testimony it gave to Meles Zenawi who argued saying let's accept this document.
As ..."the leader of warriors," Tewolde Wolde Mariam, the faction leader is saying on Meles' side he has never had a stand on any forum that held the idea let's give in our sovereignty and then negotiate," that was how ANDO gave testimony to Mr. Meles' document.
If the document doesn't make our sovereignty respected as ANDO themselves believed, insisting on signing document that doesn't make our sovereignty respected, isn't it putting in to a negotiating table?
Many are asking this question.
The ANDO article that played swing here is indicative of the fact that the people do not think freely, even now, the observers underscored.
Continuing their article, the ANDO strengthened the testimony they gave to Mr. Meles as follows. .
"As long as we know, although Meles raised a difference of standpoint that insisted on accepting the document and defeated, he had triend a better activity to mobilize the majority on his side and make the document practical...He made his level best to make it due majority vote unlike Tewolde and Siye who said boldly, "We shouldn't accept the document; Based on the document, we stand not for peaceful remedy, but for the continuation of war." And they continued, "If you deny that, here is the evidence..
By the way, we would like to let you know before hand that we provide this evidence not to build up the physique of Meles; we ANDO do not have the culture of spying, and you know well that we don't like to waggle our fails after the boss; we and Meles himself believe that it is not useful for us to walk by this direction," expressing that the last ten years they stayed serving TPLF, as if the people do not know this they gave a different an improper picture for themselves and detailed Mr. Meles' contribution..
"Before all for the victory of the war, the plans of military science wisdom and military doctrines that were necessary had to be designed by Meles; if he hadn't prepared this, no one of the faction members could have done it so.
This we and you all know well.
Had he not prepared it, we would have been in difficulty to design the strategy we have been using to come out victoriously form the war.
This was because this issue needed certain research.
You were not in the study.
According to the malicious gossip, siye spent his time for theft rather than research, and even though he is used to stealing, he wore field jacket and wander and make a speech, so "couldn't get time" and did it.
Tewelde Wolde Mariam doesn't have any other thing except Newsweek."
The ANDO article which highly built Mr. Meles' personality, detailed that Mr. Meles had much greater role than anyone during the war..
The article that assured in other world, that there was no one from ANDO that could design the military strategy if Mr. Meles didn't prepare the study, gave its testimony that if Siye form TPLF had time he could have prepared it; this study paper which Mr. Meles was said to have prepared were actually prepared by one of the two Generals who were ousted from their power, Mr. Tewolde disclosed in their article which was published in the Reporter, it was to be recalled.
At the time Ethio-Eritrea aggression broke out and while others were doing their best to defend the aggression, ANDO didn't mention about the fact that he was preparing his thesis for his graduation.
During the war the team that was led by Mr. Tewolde Wolde Mariam believed that the war should continue up to Asmara; and with this ANDO's article detailed that they had an interest in establishing a pseudo-government and return; it condemned this stand of Tewolde and his group and showed its complete sympathy to Eritrea..
"...The faction with regards to the aim of the war brought new meaning of establishing a pseudo-government apart from respecting our sovereignty; the issue of changing the Eritrea's government is the responsibility of the Eritrean people; if the people don't want to do so, it can never be done, if an external force tries to change a government at a time when the people don't want to change the government, it led to slaughtering of people.
The idea of the faction, however, went much more than maintaining our sovereignty, it went as far as changing forcefully the Eritrean government," explaining that there was an interest, on the side of Tewolde and others, to remove the Eritrean government, and condemned it..
With its military force superiority should the Ethiopian Defense army push and control Asmara and other Eritrean territories, remove the Eritrean regime and put another force in its place, most believe that it could have been a guarantee for not wagig another aggression.
Had this been practical, most believe that there would have been a possibility of using the Asab port as an owner or in some other way.
Observers criticize that the suggestions put forward by ANDO in this way to defame Tewolde and others was indicative of their sympathy towards Eritrea rather than Ethiopia.    .
ANDO in this article rebuked their former leader, Tamrat Layne..
In an article entitled "Mr. Tewolde Yanyeh welcome", ANDO made it official that when issues of the country are raised it should be left for the TPLF, while other member organizations are made to focus on regional issues.
From Ethiop January 30, 200.
Unless Ethiopia and Eritrea Stop Fighting They would Not be Granted Debt.
Both should Fight Against Poverty
In an international conference held in Zambia, Lusaka recently, the Head of the International Monetary Fund African Desk reminded that Ethiopian and Eritrea wouldn't be given new money debts unless they urgently stop the war that lasted for over 16 months.
The International Monetary Fund Official, Mr. Madebo in his statement pointed out that the two countries should fight against poverty, and to launch a campaign on poverty would change the destitute living conditions of their people, he suggested.
In the war Ethiopia and Eritrea began in April, 1990 due to a border conflict, the lives of more than ten thousand soldiers have passed away, it was pointed out..
On the other hand, the peace effort that was attempted by the Africa Union didn't bear fruit, it was pointed out.        .
Regarding the reminder that unless Ethiopia stops the war the International Monetary Fund wouldn't give her debt, a team of higher Ethiopian delegates would go to the United States next week, it was pointed out.
Observers tell that it was United States that is putting pressure so that Ethiopia wouldn't get debt unless she stops the fight.
However, the Ethiopian officials who travel to Washington would facilitate ways to get the grant, and outlined the discussion points, the report also mentioned. .
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
One Thousand Workers were given the Sack from Dire Daw.
The Dire Dawa Textile Factory known for its being veteran and huge in the name of structural adjustment, more than one thousand workers were dismissed from their job as from August 9, 1997 together with not less than 5 thousand families of them, were exposed to great difficulties..
Based on the list presented by the factory's structure-study committee, 840 workers were made to be pensioners, those who served for more than 20 years and their age reached 45, while 260 regular workers who believed that the situation would be much worse resigned and based on the application they submitted to leave their jobs, were paid their service compensation and made to leave..
Our reporter who went to the area and asked as to why the company needed structural adjustment and the aim of reducing working force came up with various suggestions..
Some said, "since the factory has long years since it inception, the production instruments have become old and the products which come out at present couldn't compete with the free market and the government has stopped the amends that it used to give the company is operating on loss..
Therefore since maintaining the 5 thousand workers would intensify the problem, the reduction was needed," said some of them.
Others suggested, "since the factory is famous and its profitability is not wanted to enable the recently built Almeda Textile Factory in Adowa become successful in the free market, and hence, it's a measure taken to weaken it." They said.
The evidence they give for this is that technical experts who were in key posts and supervisors are said to be recruited to be taken there with high salary.
The reduction of employees wouldn't stop there but stage by stage other 1400 individuals would be reduced so as to make the factory profitable or else it was decided to be sold for investors with only 2000 workers, internal sources who knew the matter closely told.    .
Even if the reduction seems to be appropriate in line with the system of free market economy, without making the workers psychologically ready, where a husband and wife being dismissed together and the nearly 5 thousand families who are supported by these people being without any means of subsistence, and may also withdraw from next year schooling, filled the people of Dire dawa with dejection..
The Dire Dawa textile factory among all other textile factories in the country, which was known especially for its production of khaki and calico (cotton cloth), has started to transform from profit to loss since the last two years when it was made to receive cotton which was below the standard of quality and the products started to be unwanted in the market..
Although the workers' association insisted on taking measures against the individuals who made the purchase them, it was only meant for a one-time media consumption and didn't do any good, most of the victims of the problem spoke with regret..
From Tobia August 21, 1997
Haile G/Silassie Wins 10 thousand Meters Race for Third Time
Haile G/Silassie wins for the third time in the ten thousand meters' race held in Athens city.
According to Reuters report form Athens the 24-years Haile G/Selassie finished the fierce competition in 27 minutes 24.58 second.
Haile slipped out when it remained 600 meters to the finishing line and had a marvelous finish followed by the 1995 bronze medal winner, Paul Tergat of Kenya, and the former ten thousand meters record owner salah Hisu of Morocco.
Paul Tergat of Kenya stood 2nd in 27 minutes 25.62 second while salah Hisu of Morocco finished 3rd in 27 minutes 28.67 second.
It's to be recalled that last year in Atlanta Olympic in this race three of them finished one other just like this one.
Before the recorder holder Haile dashed off from the midst, he followed leg to leg the athlete who was leading the race and suddenly slipped out marvelously in a way the Kenyan athletes couldn't reach him, proving to be the best athlete of the world, routers disclosed in its report.   .
It's to be real led that the Ethiopian great athlete Haile G/Selassie couldn't participate in the five thousand races for the track in Atlanta was dry and his feet was injured while he won ten thousand race there.
Due to this Haile requested that the track field in Athens to be smooth with water..
However, his question was disregarded, routers also reported..
From Addis Zemen Friday, August 8, 1997
"I know what kind of Verdict it would Pass on me," Mr. Bitew Bela.
The third accused Mr. Nigussie Hailu was allowed by the Federal High court first criminal bench to go and bring, being escorted, documents from the ministry of Justice but disclosed that he couldn't find any.
Among the individuals the Federal Ethics and Anti-corruption commission prosecutor changed in corruption case, the third accused Mr. Nigussie Hailu spoke to the court yesterday that as the ministry of justice doesn't have any evidence on me except the case of Tamrat Layne, I have brought a-15-page counter oppositions, he said.
It was to be recalled that the rep of crime investigation coordination said to the court on January 15/2002 that the evidences of Mr. Nigussie is not with us but at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr. Nigussie also made the curt realize this.
Including Mr. Nigussie's counter opposition of yesterday it was disclosed that all the accused presented their defensive evidence to the court.
However, the court said it's mandatory to give appointment for February 13/2002 in order to be able to see all the written evidences and give decisions.
In the mean time, after the appointment date was given, the second accused Mr. Bitew Belay said, let me present an idea and expressed his appeal.
I didn't expect to come and go only with appointment for eight months, and I ask if the judgment process become shortened and be given the right verdict, he said.
Indeed I know what kind of verdict it would pass on me, said Mr. Bitew, but I would accept the verdict anyway.
According to him, he would like to know the verdict passed on him and would like to think of his future life and work in a peaceful frame of mind.
Although Mr. Bitew said that he'd accept whatever verdict passed on him, he also stated that he's guiltless to the court.
The first criminal bench of the Federal High Court after having listened to his suggestions gave him a response saying that although you claimed to know the verdict before it passed, we still don't know it now.
What decides this is the judiciary process and the analysis of evidences presented, the court disclosed.
On the other hand, when the 54 government officials, inclusive of Ethiopian Commercial Bank president, Mr. Tilahun Abay, and business people were accused on January 8/2002, the 16th accused Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye, who did not appear then, appeared on this court session yesterday.
The 16the accused was charged with other 25 accused individuals of illegally allowing 190 million 218 thousand 700 Birr to be taken on money laundering from Ethiopian commercial bank of Ethiopia, Anwar Mosque Branch..
The accused stated that he went out of his job from Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, retiring in 1993 and, therefore, he wasn't in his position when the alleged debts were given.
From this angle the accusation doesn't make him accountable and, therefore, asked the court his bail right and continue to dispute his case.
The prosecutor however, said since his case was a corruption one, he asked the court not to give him the right to be released on bail.
The court viewing the case ordered that it won't give the right to be released on bail for the 16th accused Mr. Alemayehu Zegeye, and he was sent to prison..
From the Press, January 30, 2002.
The Regime That Campaigned on the Legislation and Judicatur.
In Federal Courts there are 72 thousand substantive files for 20 Judges -- shortage of Judges has been aggravating
In a country where a popular law school which has produced professionals for over 30 years and where the new "Civil Service College which is the training institution for members of the regime are said to have trained law professionals, the shortage of judge from time to time in federal courts aggravates the situation for people with cases in the court who seek justice, are in great problem, it was disclosed.
While the judges whom their appointment was approved by the Council of Reps were only 26, six of them left their work due to death case, on their own, and as a result of a not-so-conductive-working environment, and on sickness, it was disclosed.
In a statement the Federal Supreme Court gave in the second week of August in connection with last year's recess closure of the curt, (Addis Zemen, Tuesday, August 14, 1997) made official that 38,146 criminal, 40,189 civil, 3,116 work dispute files were transferred to 1998.
These altogether made the figure more than 72 thousand files.
This figure doesn't include new cases whose files are in the process of being opened and cases whose files are with registrars and judges but not given appointment..
In this case one judge should see 3,600 files this year.
If judges are said to be full and work 200 days in a year, one Court of Session should see not less than 54 files.
And if the word "seeing" may include listening to word evidence, investigating and giving decisions, it would be extremely difficult for the working judges to run judicature qualitatively and in haste, professionals in the field are saying. .
The problem that reigned in the courts which resulted in elongation of unsettled cases an injustice is also reflected upon more than 500 lawyers who take up their cases in the Federal court, so there are many who call up on Ethiopian lawyers association to make heard its voice focusing on the issue.
They mention as proofs that the judiciary system is in a difficult situation and in order to show that it is plodding along, files which have been postponed year after year are many; that including cases which need urgent responses are being postponed; for example, case related to employer-employee which need to be resolved in 60 days is postponed for years; that judges of each court session mostly spend their time in the new year giving appointments.
"The regime doesn't have interest in strengthening the judiciary system; instead it opens a campaign against the legislation and judiciary system," and continued, these groups saying, "The fact that it sacked old-timer law professionals from the judicature and in their place assigning those 12 graders, and even those who are below this grade, by giving them short-term courses, for the positions that need a long-year training and maturity even in regular education; so if there had been willingness to strengthen the judiciary system, even recently before the council of Reps was closed, judges could be appointed and could have made preparation for this year," they said.
The nation's judiciary system is in a "bush like" the law of the jungle?    .
) Way that they wanted to operate in this way and are now controlling everything, adding that the civil servants are sacked in great numbers; at a time when illegal decisions are being taken on the business community by the legislative body, and where the judiciary system is deliberately weakened so that sides who have been done wrong administratively would not be able to go the court in search of justice and judicature and strengthen decisions of politicians, they expressed.  .
They pointed out that this is done so that ways could be established where especially citizens could be put behind bars without legislation and judiciary order, and couldn't go to the court and get urgent decision; it is a campaign they deliberately carry out to cripple the judiciary system.   .
These revolutionary democrats, who preach free judiciary system on a propaganda level, see legislation and judicature not as a tool of respecting human rights, but as a protector of their power and authority from the opposition forces; this is how observers are telling;
While the interest of politicians is this, there are who claim to be law professionals, sitting on the chair of the judiciary system, who had the legislation and judiciary system killed; they would never escape from being accountable by history and the generation, many are pointing..
It's to be recalled that whether it was from the problem around the judiciary system or not, Mr. Mahteme Solomon, the ministry of justice who resigned use to say "the golden age of Justice.
From Tobia October 2, 1997
The Atrocious case of Colonel Mengistu has Caused Trouble to the Free Pres.
The Journalist was released in 24 hours
Going to Nairobi, then to Zimbabwe it is known that he has made his living in Harare now.
It is to be recalled that two Eritreans made an assassination attempt on Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam on November 5, 1996 around his residence..
Among the free press, who reported this news, Mr. Zegeye Haile appeared to the Federal Higher court 2nd criminal court of session and pronounced two years sentence and then thousand Birr fine to be paid in four years..
The owner of Genanaw newspaper and publishing Mr. Zegeye Haile, had presented an evidence to the court and the latter proved it right similar to the news that is reported in the newspaper, but stated that the accused should have gone further to prove it; and hence, the sentence would be executed..
The two Eritreans accused of the assassination attempt on Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam on November 5, 1997 around his residential area, after having been sentenced to 5 and 7 year imprisonments appealed to the court and recently were released freely.  .
On the other hand, the free press journalist who reported about the Eritreans was subjected to a sentence of imprisonment.
The case of the journalist who, after appearing to the court on July 4, and was told to appear for the court's decision on July 8 from his arrest, was a surprise to many for he was sentenced to two years imprisonment and ten thousand Birr fine to be paid in 4 years' time.
The efforts made to have the journalists released since that day, including the distributing manager of the news paper and Maebel, Ethiop, Atkurot and Fiameta newspapers made their share to pay the ten thousand Birr and in 24 hours he was able to be released..
The cooperative spirit displayed by the free press members is commendable and educative, as many would agree.
In the mean time, Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam is to change his former residence, Ganhill Villa to a more secure and a better modern villa, the Independent Newspaper which is published in the country reported..
The place which is now to be taken by colonel Mengistu was formerly intended to be residence for African leaders in Zimbabwe when they went there for summit meeting, it was disclosed.
Colonel Mengistu's was allowed to live in a residence intended for Ethiopian leader. .
From Fiameta July 10, 1998
CUD and EPRDF are agitating through Mobile Message.
Among the political parties who are making fierce competition, Ethiopian peoples Democratic Front and coalition for Unity and Democracy are making their election agitation through mobile messages, too, some Addis Ababa residents told.
As the residents told yesterday, EPRDF and CUD are sending their messages through mobile messages, asking those received to disseminate it to others.
EPRDF's message says "I definitely know that you love Ethiopia.
Without doubting that the coming years hold a bright future, vote for EPRDF."
Those individuals who received the message are asked by EPRDF to pass the message on to ten other supporters of the party.
Coalition for Unity and Democracy, on its part said, "Truth he come explicitly; voting to the sign of victory on the road to freedom, move with CUD," expressing its election agitation.
In its message that said vote to CUD, we believe that you love Ethiopia, so the receiver of the message should pass it on to at least to five country-loving Ethiopians.
In both sides, the mobile messages that are dove in a civilized way are found to be better than those rebukes which are heard on the television, individuals who received the message pointed out.
From Addis Zemen April 15, 200.
The Curtain of the War is Opened!
The EPLF troops who were seen off with profuse chanting and dancing were taken captives at Algena, hanging their guns like a still rod!
The Ethiopian and Eritrean clash that suddenly erupted on May 12 was astray form diplomatic efforts to an open war.
It was to be recalled the new attack that was made by EPLF soldiers on May 30 at 4 O'clock in the morning on two Ethiopian districts, Dalgeda and Algena, were held under control of the EPLF forces, attacking the surrounding militia and peaceful people.
EPLF forces were encountered by resistance in all areas it had put under control, killing individuals, arresting them in houses and even burning them..
Not limited by this, EPLF forces attacked the buildings the surrounding people built, looted its cattles, and making them carry machine guns, committing inhuman acts, sources related to the issue reported.  .
On the other hand, in a news transmitted on the day before yesterday on the voice of America radio, from the two districts EPLF had put under control, algena and Dalgeda, it has now left some of the areas as a result of the retaliating attack on it..
The VOA reporters, who were reporting from Alitena, said the Ethiopian army held under control anti-aero plane missile, machine gun and took captives lots of army officials. .
These EPLF soldiers, who were seen off with profuse chanting and drumbeating, couldn't defend the retaliation measures taker on the side of Ethiopia, the news sources disclosed. .
It was known that after the army who were in Jijiga town came to Adigrat after three day and night journey, the moral of Ethiopian army and the people were highly boosted..
In the mean time, in order to substitute the army that had come form Jijiga, many army members were making their journey to east by train..
On the other hand about fifteen thousand former soldiers of TPLF who now work on farmlands in Gondar, at Dansha district (Awrora) urgently responding to the call went to Tigray..
In general, the defense which used to be done by militia and police have now been strengthened and charged by mechanized army, the news that reached us from the place pointed out.
On the side of Eritrean people's liberation front, former Dergue ground force military officials were participants, "the Indian Ocean News Letter" stated on May 28/98 editions..
According to the report, among those ex-Ethiopian military officials who led the mechanized EPLKF army during the invasion of Beadme and Sheraro areas, the ex-leader of 6th mechanized squad 26th unit, lieutenant colonel Tadesse Senbeta and the ex-military security official of the 6th  mechanized squad, major Nesibu W/Gerima, spearheaded the front.    .
On the side of Eritrea, the campaign around the border is still underway, some reports pointed out..
Related to this it was reported that the dwellers in Asab and Asmara are in great difficulties..
As a result of this, expensive living conditions many Eritreans are emigrating to Ethiopia, and by now 100 Ethiopian Birr is exchanged for 125 nakfa, the report explained.       .
The Eritrean president Isayas Afeworki answering to the questions asked by voice of America, said ... we have been hearing a concocted story that Eritrean economy is dependent on Ethiopian economy..
... The trade relation we had with Ethiopia was said to reach a highest stage merely on Teff cereal..
We used to buy up to 50 million Birr Teff cereal..
But now it stopped.
Just because Teff cereal has stopped being imported or because Teff is not eaten, it doesn't mean that Eritrean economy meet with crisis, he concluded..
In the mean time, many trucks that carry Teff and other cereals were obliged not to cross Eritrean border, and in the same way, trucks which carry salt have been banned up to recently from getting in to Ethiopia..
The other contentious issue was that not only were more than 65000 ton food aid, different cars, medicines an packed food were ordered to remain at Asab port, but also owners who went to Asab to collect their properties were seized and are under arrest, it's disclosed..
Asked about these conditions, the Eritrean president replied that they ordered to stop Ethiopian Airline Service..
They closed it.
The activities around the port were ordered to be withdrawn and closed.
Cars were ordered neither to get out or in..
Since the situation in Asab and Mitsewa were said to be dangerous and they sent a message that movement should be stopped..
The ships which were carrying Ethiopia's cargoes were ordered to come via Djibouti and so they went there.
The port was said to be closed..
It is closed..
The fact we know is this ... I couldn't make out why this was decided..
If that is done to run dry the economic benefit of Eritrea, we might think ... until situations charge or till another curtain is uncovered, he responded.
Well, the other curtain of war is uncovered.
Both sides sent their troops to the place and started the war..
The Ethiopian army, who was on alert, is aggressively moving forward..
The feared war has started bringing about blood sheds.
While peace and negotiation is expected from both sides, or from third party, situations seemed to be out of control..
It won't be difficult to think about the loss of life and properties this war whose ending is unknown. .
When's the confrontation, which has now counted twenty-two days, going to stop? It would remain a question that wouldn't be answered for long..
From Fiameta June 3, 1998
An Aged Skeleton is Found
(ENA): At the Polio Anthropology Heritage Center in Konso the group that is conducting the study disclosed that it got a human race skull that lived before 1.4 million years, the discovery of which appeared in scientific publication, organization for Heritage Protection uncovered..
According to the statement the organization made to ENA yesterday, the study conducted at Konso Polio Anthropology Heritage Center on the skull of the ancient human race which was found in 1993, known by its scientific name ‘Australopitiks Bozy' has been completed and it would appear to day for public reading on scientific study magazine..
The studies that were conducted before years indicated that the two different human races by their scientific names, ‘Homo Eraktis and Australopitiks Bozay' used to live together, the organizaton disclosed..
In addition, various animal races that used to live in those days were found in great number and stone tools the ancient man used to utilize were also found in great number, out of which the age-old heritage known by the name ‘Ashuliyan' was found it was disclosed.
The organization for studies and protection of Heritage indicated that the skull of the human race discovered in the study was not found in the heritage centers of north of Konso, Hadar, Central Awash and Melka Kunture, the ancient human race was expected to have lived from 1 to 2 million years and then become extinct on earth..
The konso Heritage studies is believed to give answers to questions related to the ancient human race and unanswered questions, and questions pertinent to the general biological cultural growth and change of human races who lived between 1 and 2 million years, the organization disclosed..
The Konso Heritage Center has been said to resemble the Tanzanian ‘Alduvay' and the Kenyan ‘Turkana lake' Heritage Centers..
The Heritage Center has a great significance not only in showing the development of ancient races given of heir to human races, biological development and change, creation of the ancient material culture and development, but also the fact that it has become heirloom of Ethiopian and world history is great, the organization disclosed..
The Konso Heritage Center was found in September, 1994 by a group led by a research named Dr. Berhane Asfaw in a search campaign while the skull of the ancient human race which appeared in scientific publication was found by a Mr. Awoke Amozaye who was a member of a study group at the ministry of culture in southern Nation and Nationality Region, the organization revealed..
For the last five years the Organization for studies and Protection of Heritages disclosed that a group has been conducting a research led by the archaeologist Dr. Yonas Beyene and Paleontologist instructor at the Japan Tokyo University, Dr. Gen Suo, the organization disclosed.
From Addis Zemen October 2, 1997
The OLF Suspects Were Freely Released After 7 years Behind Bars.
In a pretext of being a member and proponent of OLF out of the Oromo nationals that were being behind bars between five and seven years without any charges, 550 of them were freely released, reliable news sources form Oromia region, explained.
Among the 970 Oromo nationals who were taken from their areas of home by OPDO cadres and core members and were put to jail from five to seven years in eastern Hararage zone without being brought to justice and charged, in the pretext of being a member and proponents of Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), 550 of them were released freely for they were proved to be innocent from any of the climes they were suspected of OLF membership and being supporter, giving in innocent individual's nor killing and terrorizing, our reliable news source disclosed.
These 550 Oromo nationalities who were behind for 7 years without being brought to justice, in violation of the country's constitution consisted of farmers, business persons, civil servants, intellectuals and privately working individuals, the report pointed out.
Due to this illegal long-time arrest, about seven years, their families and marriages have been torn apart and the properties they've possessed through long years of marriage were divided among regional officials and some OPDO cadres, the news mentioned, and even from the outset they were arrested because the area officials wanted to confiscate their wealth, properties and houses and their wives, and due to an influence of skill and outlook, the report also explained.
The political officials and cadres of OPDO who cooperatively operate in eastern Harerghe Zone with Harari National League (HNL) which accused the Oromo nationalities and innocent civilians in a pretext of cooperating with terror groups, OLF armed troops, by giving in people for killing and had put them behind bars for up to 7 years' time without being charged, the news said, and had the suspects were found to be guilty with evidence, they could have been sentenced form life imprisonment ot death penalty, it pointed out.
The 550 individuals out of the 670 prisoners released be cause the Federal prosecutor General filed 375 charges since the last two months an the eastern Oromia main court of law mobile court of session investigated the files and found no evidence of witness to the charges the Federal prosecutor brought, the reliable sources of Oromia region explained.
The prisoners whom the mobile Court of Session decided upon to be released were freed due to the removal of the area OPDO cadres from their positions and the rest 120 Oromo nationalities' case would soon get a resolve, our sources disclosed.
Due to the removal of OPDO's higher officials from their positions and following the statement released by OPDO stating that it had undergone reform, the president of Oromia administrative government, Mr. Juneydi Sado recently gave a statement expressing that in the region individuals are found behind bars for a long time without being charged, and that the situation would be investigated upon and would be given justice, and in the future this situation would not be repeated.
From Goh January 12, 2002 .
In Ethiopia the Hope of Democracy is overshadowe.
Netherlands Minister of Foreign cooperation and Development
The democratic regime that was expected to flourish in Ethiopia after May 1991, was never brought to light and the hope of reviving it is overshadowed, one higher official of the Netherlands government disclosed in Amsterdam; Mr. Yan Teronk, who expressed this concluding remark that showed a great change of standpoint on the part of Holland government, is minister of Holland's Foreign Cooperation and Development.
In his official speech at Fu-Sositiat Hall in Amsterdam town on October 8, 1998, the TPLF/EPRDF government from the outset didn't have all-embracing feeling and hasn't participated most of the political organizations, and so the democratic process that was expected to happen, has been aborted now; consecutive discussion programs have been carried out round "Hints on an overall Issues about Africa".
Mr. Yan Teronk was invited as the main speaker on one topical issue among other programs.
The topic he chose for his October 8, 1998 speech was entitled "Conflict should be avoided;"
In the speech he made on this topic, after he detailed the critical problems that are predominant in Ethiopia, the outlook that Holland had two years ago up to some time on wards was positive but then as from the outset, the TPLF /EPRDF/ administration hasn't make inclusive and since it has become, in the process, pushy and exclusive of other political organizations, the formation of democratic order that was highly looked forward to, has been hindered, he underscored.
At the time it was common to popularize TPLF/EPRDF in Holland, the Ethiopians living in Holland who were highly concerned and felt uneasy about the issue ‘said' "For us Meles and Mengistu are the same! Don't make us choose form two dictators!" and repeatedly were made to go out to the street for demonstration, to express their bitter protest..
This protest which was part of the democratic struggle of Ethiopian people have bear fruit today as pointed out by Mr. Yan Teronk's speech, many observers suggested; During the occasion of Mr. Yan Teronk's speech other than invited citizens, a number of Ethiopian living in Holland and citizens of other African countries were present.    .
Many questions and criticisms were raised based on his speech.
In a situation where previously by the powerful soviet Union, in the name of socialism, and today the powerful Western Countries in the name of democracy, bring to power dictator leaders on Ethiopia, and in a situation where they make the country a land of extermination for three decades, could conflict be resolved from Ethiopia and horn of Africa.
For this question which was raided from one participant Mr. Yan Terok gave a response;
In his answer, after the end of the cold war, that is, after the fall of Dergue regime and Soviet union, there was a great hope that in Ethiopia a democracy which is backed by the west would flourish, but this hope was aborted, he underscored repeatedly.
In addition, he said Africans should not raise the past history of colonization and the actors of the history and put the blame on them, rather they should use the positive changes that came about after the cold war and, organize the basis for facilitating public order and building up development, he reminded..
He also explained about the critical issue of refugees case that has become discouraging to Ethiopians living in Holland.
He strongly reminded that the refugee whose case was given a negative decision on the law court after his/her applicaton for right of refugee has been viewed up to the end, is obliged to leave Holland.
It is to be recalled that last August the Holland government signed an agreement with TPLF/EPRDF government to return from 700-900 Ethiopian citizens whom it identified as illegal refugees..
Based on this agreement, Ethiopian citizens whom the court passed judgment as having no sufficient reason to live in Holland would be given money to establish themselves and return to their country..
However, no Ethiopian citizen has applied to willingly use this opportunity and return to Ethiopia, it was told.
As Ethiopians Immigrate not in search of money but in search of peace and life security, there's a predominant feeling among Ethiopians that there may be no one who would be attracted by money and return home.
In fact, while the number of Ethiopian refugees are like a drop in the ocean when compared to the number of refugee population in Holland, the question why have they been focused among the first ones to return, has been raised among them.
On the other hand, while other African countries are not willing to sign the treaty that was designed to return refugees, the fact that the TPLF/EPRDF government is the only government to sigh the treaty by itself may point out that there might be a plot or an intrigue which was made between the two governments behind the refugees, a hypothesis has been raised. .
From Tobia October 16, 1997
President Negasso Giddada Bade Farewell to the ambassador of Mozambiq.
President Negasso Giddada yesterday bade farewell to the Mozambique ambassador in Ethiopia, Alexande Zendamelan, who have completed his work time..
In a ceremony carried out in the national palace, President Negasso praised the role played by the ambassador to strengthen the relationship of the two countries during his stay here for five years, a spokesperson from the ministry of Foreign Affairs disclosed.
Although her economy was affected due to the flood she had had before, the president expressed his hope that he would speed up her development, and he pointed out. .
At this time, president Negasso expressed his brotherly greetings to president Chasan of Mozambique, it was disclosed.
On his part, Ambassador Zandamela explained that during his stay in Ethiopia he opens good time and considered Ethiopia as a second home.
From Addis Zemen June 27, 2001
This Year's Autumn Rain Exceeds Those Registered in 52 Years
This year's amount of autumn rain exceeds those registered in 52 years, National Meteorology Service Organization disclosed.
Mr. Diriba Korcha the organization's weather Forecast and precautionary Warning group leader in a statement he gave to the reporter of the newspaper, expressed that in Addis Ababa, Kombolcha, sirinka, Kofele, Sokru and Enewari, from 96.3 up to 48.8 mili meter rain was registered.
The expert reminded that last rainy season such kind of rain poured for only one or two days, but the rain that poured for 2 hours last Friday exceeded those that poured in 52 years' time.
The rain that poured for one hour in Enewari area, North Shoa damaged the crops on threshing floor, disclosed Mr. Diriba and pointed out that the farmers should collect their grains in communal Labor, but in order to threshed it has to wait until the autumn season passes, he reminded.
Especially, the part of the community that lives around flash fold should take the necessary precaution and protect themselves from a danger of flood, and when it rains it could be dangerous to take shelter in an open field and under a tree for it brings about lightning, he disclosed.
From Addis Zemen March 15, 200.
The Gun that was used to accompany the patriarch while he went to Kulibe was seized on the way
The Clashin-Kov gun that was make to accompany the patriarch who went to attend the annual church service at Kulibe St. Gabriel church on July 27, 1999, by the clergy was seized on its way, it was disclosed. .
According to our reporter's disclosure the patriarch's nephew, Mr. Yared Kebedew, Mr. Berhane who'd head of the security, and several security guards of the clergy, as well as various workers of the church who were heading towards the church, accompanied by many vehicles, were about to reach kulibe when suddenly the area government security guns made a search and the gun was seized.
Including the patriarch and his deputy archbishops went by airplane on the 25th of July, 1999 from Addis Ababa to Dire Dawa, while the patriarch's close relatives who went early by car to warmly receive him on the 23rd of July 1999.
Those Friend of the family who spent the night on the 23rd of July at Awash, were aught with the gun unexpectedly on July 24, our reporters disclosure quoting eye witnesses explained.
The patriarch's entourage who were sent to Kulibe were not only all armed with pistols but also a Klashin Kov gun is seized in their car explaining to the area security force that "it was held for the purpose of the patriarch's security" the report disclosed.
"Kulibi has its own security guns; and if necessary there is the area security force.
Why was it necessary for you to bring guns?
It was a question asked by the area people to the patriarch's entourage and armed members who were caught with pistols and the Klashin - Kov..
However, after so many ups and downs, the people were made to be released, out reporters disclosure explained.
The other news which we received from the clergy was that a lot of money was paid for the patriarch's entourage who hold the guns as per diem expense while no per diem was given to the scholar of the office of clergy who went to Kulibe.
As a result, there was a great discontent from the side of the scholar, it explained.
From Fiameta July 28, 1999
They Become without Country, without Government.
Ethiopian were evicted from Somalia, their properties appropriated – they couldn't get anyone that take their case stand for their rights..
According to the agreement reached between Ethiopia government and Somaliland Republic, from 900-1000 Ethiopians who used to do menial jobs at Hargesa, Berbera, Borema, buro and other forms were forcefully evicted at night through Togo Wechale Ethiopian border, their money and properties appropriated by policemen, kidnapped and beaten, the victims disclosed..
Since Ziyad Bare government was ousted in 1981, many Ethiopians who used to live for many years in the different towns of North Somalia, a country that declared as Somali land Republic, doing menial jobs such as dam work, Toilet digging and as servants in private residences, suddenly and without giving them chance to collect the properties they earned though their un preferred jobs, were evicted from the country through threatening gun-shots of Hagesa policemen, they told our office that the situation had left them feeling very dejected..
As if the maltreatment of Hargessa policemen were not sufficient, the EPRDF soldiers who received them at Togowechale left them in the bush for six days without any help, later took them at Jijiga revolutionary square which was unexpected from a troop that claimed to defend the country from attacks, and it also showed that the prevailing government doesn't care a bit about its citizens, the victims explained..
The people of Jijiga provided them with water and food supplies to its fellow-people who were hungry and suffered a lot but the government wanted to come out smelling like a rose by distributing clothes and daily rations attempting to keep them stable..
These sources indicated that the displaced people who were evicted, money they hardly earned doing menial jobs being appropriated and being beaten put forward their mistreatments to Somalia national regional administration which is found in Jijiga..
The displaced people explained there the Regional Administration wrote regretting letter sating that the agreement of the two countries underscored to hand over Ethiopians bringing them to the border and not appropriate their money and evict them by beating; since then the looting and forceful measures and eviction have temporarily stopped.
The cause for the displaced people, as widely heard in the area, was the request EPRDF government put forward based on the information reached it for the government to curb the flow of Ethiopians who engaged themselves in menial jobs in Hargessa, Berbera, Borema, buro and other Somaliland towns and were said to have flown into Oman through Bosaso port, where training center of the opposition forces are claimed to operate..
The Ethiopian government wanted to evict primarily Ethiopian ex-soldiers, some of whom with high and military ranks who were registered by United Nations Humanitarian commission for Refugees (UNHCR) and line these, but since couldn't evict those people, we were obliged to became the victims of the problem, said the information.
Although the number did not excel that of the present year, as many Ethiopians were forced to evict from Northern Somalia, these victims reminded that three years back, too 90 people were evicted from that country in late at might their money and properties appropriated, they spoke with regret.    .
At the time when Somalia have become without government after the downfall of Ziyad Bare regime, and when Somalia has been in great trouble and anarchy reigned, Ethiopian people opened their arms warmly received somalians and up to now many hundred thousand refugees are considers as fellow - brother and sisters, the displaced mentioned, and the Ethiopian government having kept their rights even of those who don't get have permits, it has saddened them to see a government who claimed to lead the country to be negligent when such kind of injustice and humiliation were done to Ethiopians.
While somalians who are registered as refugees, especially those who live at Hartishek, Harshin, Kamaboker and east Gashamo, have opened stores and built big ware houses and without any question import cars crossing borders, trading as far as Addis Ababa, and takeout passports to go to some other countries, the Ethiopians who were engaged in menial works not in big businesses, were considered criminal and forcefully evicted, in any criterion is in humans, full of racism, the displaced underscored..
One Ethiopian who was in Hargessa at the time asked "While the somalians in Ethiopia more freely with their rights protected, where do you evict Ethiopian appropriating their money and properties, who have been working in your country in menial jobs for along time?
In response to this, "Ethiopia is a country where anyone is allowed to live.
But Somalia is only for Somalias, we don't allow other to live in it" they responded with obstinacy, the victim who listened to this conversation expressed.
In order for the Somaliland police to take forceful measure, especially the ALETHAD group members played great role, these sources also disclosed.
It's known that Hargesa, which secede from Somali, which is a country with out government and call herself Somaliland Republic has not yet recognized would wide..
From Tobia August 7, 1997
The Spy got married in Ethiopian Embassy.
"Was it because the Ambassador's wife is Eritrean?" Mr. Tadesse Gebre Egziabhere who was born and grew up in Eritrea, was told by many, as one of those engaged in spying career, threw a lavish wedding on September 1, 1999 in the premise of  Ethiopian Embassy in Bon, it is disclosed.
The report that reached us explained that Mr. Tadesse was sent to Germany for education and he remained there, when meeting was held in Germany about issue of Ethiopian Unity, he was known for insulting and shouting in the hall, especially when EPLF and TPLF were mentioned..
What was most astounding about this individual was the fact that he had a wedding extravaganza in the premise of the residence of the Ethiopian ambassador, it was said.
These sources added that the individuals did this in order to show their contempt on other Ethiopians as some said..
While the Embassy represents the people, the Ambassador's residence is considered as a palace..
However, from which policy does this kind of irresponsible act of throwing a party emanates? Say some people on telephone form the place..
The other contentious issue was the Ethiopian Ambassador Mr. Berhanu Tinsay's wife is Eritrean..
Opinions were given that this lavish wedding party was thrown because the wife of the Ethiopian Ambassador is Eritrean..
Tadesse Gebre Egziabeher secretary at Ethiopian Embassy in Bon who came from Eritrean made the wedding extravaganza colorful, observers commented..
Internal sources told us that the General Secretary, Mr. Tsehaye Wolde Gabriel contributed a lot being EPLE member when he was an immigrant in Germany..
It was regrettable that while the Embassy invited Ethiopian immigrants twice to discuss about the prevalent situations in Eritrea and Ethiopia, the meeting was not held in the Embassy compound..
The reason given for deciding not to hold the meeting within the Embassy premise was to make oppositions not appear in the embassy, it was disclosed..
Due to this reason, they rented a hall outside the embassy and in the meeting held there, it was agreed to raise fund for the displaced Ethiopians and the meeting was adjourned..
To rent a hall outside the embassy 28 thousand Birr was expended..
So, why do the diplomats who refused to discuss issues about Ethiopia in the premise of the Embassy allowed the premise for an individual who's claimed to be a spy for Eritrea? What did the Eritrean spied in this wedding? Who did he recruit? We'll leave the response to government bodies..
From Fiameta September 6, 1998
In Adowa Town more than 37 million Birr Development Projects are Underwa.
In Tigray central zone, in Adowa town different development projects that cost more than 37 million Birr are underway, the municipality of the town disclosed.
General Manager of the municipality Mr. Habtu Mebrahtu recently disclosed that the development activities that are being carried out in the town are made possible due to the contribution of the residents, investors and the municipality.
Among the development activities that are being conducted in the town, a five-kilometer gravel road, a 15-kilometer cleaning of interior roads, a five-kilometer asphalt repair, amendment of two flood protection tubes for two intermediate bridges, and a three-kilometer road-repair work are found.
Moreover, the residents and investors, allocated more than 33.4 million Birr capital to take part in hotel, children's school, supermarkets, plastic factory and different small-scale industries, received more than 18 thousand square meters, and started construction works, the general manager disclosed.
When the development projects are completed more than 10 thousand residents would be beneficiary, and it would create job opportunities for more than 300 people, the general manager explained.
From Addis Zemen, March 24, 2005
Eritrea is Going to Train the Young with Special Army Commando
The Eritrean government is prepared to send and train thousands of youngsters to Israel..
To this end, youngsters who gave services and returned are being gathered form everywhere..
During their stay in Israel the youngsters would learn skills that enable them attack in ground force, air force and navy..
The requirement asked was one whose age is not beyond 25, not married and healthy, it indicates..
According to the news report, the call is reaching these recruits, but most of them didn't accept the call, escaped and are found immigrating to Ethiopia.
In the mean time, Eritrean defense minister ordered those who took school leaving examinations last year and didn't get enough results, those who graduated form University in degrees and diplomas, and those graduated form technical schools in diploma to get in to Sawa and take the 7th round soldiers training. .
Political analysts who follow Eritrea's situation from various directions believed that the wide military preparation may be dangerous not only to Sudan and Yemen but also to Ethiopia, the report it reached us pointed out.        .
From Tobia September 18, 1997
EPRDF's Newspapers Are Decided to be Published Twice in a Week.
Journalists are seen off to the War Front.
It's known that EPRDF's papers are decided to come out twice as February 7, 1999 with the order of higher bodies.
Among the papers of EPRDF which are published by Fana Democracy this directive would apply for Efoyta, Abiyotawi Democracy, mahitot and other similar papers.
Before it was decided to publish these papers twice a week several controversies wer4e raised.
While many raised and argued a question of capacity, EPRDF authorities mentioned other tabloids that hit the stand twice a week and asked in what way are you weaker? This raised their eyebrows.
While each newspaper which is the new media of EPRDF has now a days from ten to thirty personnel's the private press (tabloids) who work with less number of personnel's, do a better job, according to many who gave their testimonies..
In related news, the afforested newspaper moved to the war front to report about the war.  .
On the other hand, the BBC and AFP journalists who returned home doubting the break of the war, arrived in Addis last week, it was stated.
Some of the journalists have now moved to the nearby towns from where the war is to be conducted..
There are some who said that this was a clear indication that the war surely would break..
In the meantime, it's stated that the present Eritrean government opposition force, ELF, started a news radio broadcast.
The broadcast is aimed at opposing (shaebian) EPLF government; wipe it out upon establishing a new government..
The radio is broadcasted through 9230 Kilo hertz and 31 Meters short wave, sources related to us, reported..
ELF is widely supported by EPRDF and its broadcast is clearly heard In Eritrea, it was stated.   .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
Thirty tons of Ammunition that was on its way to Eritrea was Seize.
Bulgaria Seized ammunitions that weigh 30 tons in a Ukraine air plane that was on its way to Eritrea form cheque Republic, a private television in Bulgaria disclosed.
BBC quoting the report broadcasted the day before yesterday by the television pointed out that Bulgaria seized the ammunition that would cost quarter million dollars in a Ukraine gov't air plane, attempting to violate the UN sanction..
The Bulgarian government disclosed that it is looking in to the case to release the Ukraine air plane..
BBC didn't say in its evening report as to what measure would be taken on the ammunition next..
From Addis Zemen May 1, 2001.
"Computer Technology Helps for a Country's Development"
Mr. Fikre is what he's called.
He was born in 1952 in Gondar town around Azezo area.
He learned his elementary education in Gondar town.
Since he went to Asmara when he was 15, he got the opportunity to learn at Leul Mekonnen Secondary School.
As soon as he completed grade eleven he was employed to serve as an Air Force officer.
Because he got good results in school leaving certificate examination while he was in the air force, he joined Addis Ababa University.
A little after having earned diploma in Accounting he went to the former Republic of Czechoslovakia and got now master's degree in Management Information systems and ‘computer science', and now he's the manager of Alpa Lumber Corporation. .
Ato Fikre who's currently doing research on Computer Science Font technology has become our guest today. .
Addis Zemen: What kinds of work were you doing after you have earned your Master's degree?
Ato Fikre: As soon as I completed my education, I returned to my home country to help my fellow people.
Then I have taught a computer course entitled system 'Analysis and Design' in Addis Ababa University for eleven months..
At the time I was teaching in air force, too.
Nevertheless, since situations were not convenient and the time was not reliable and since my wife and children were in the capital of Italy, Rome, I asked to bring my family so permission was granted..
As soon as I went there I was employed as a programmer and computer expert at food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
After serving for four years I went to Canada.
Addis Zemen: why did you choose to learn Computer science.
And how far had this field got recognition in our county.
Mr. Fikere: When I returned to Ethiopia after studying computer science I came to realize that nothing was known about the field..
Well, this was in 1983.
During the time there were few who had computers.
Since computer was not known, it was not widespread.
It was during this time that I returned to Ethiopia from Czechoslovakia (now called Czech Republic).
I was interested to study the subject for I knew about the various disciplines of University.
When I though of the field I first studied in diploma, Accounting, it worried me how it would be useful to me and where it would take me..
When I joined university computer science had just started.
I thought about it.
So, I took one flyer about computer science and started to understand what the field is all about.
I had mathematical and a technical skill, what could be difficult was logic and integration.
Hence, I decided to study, this field in and become ready in the belief of having a good future.
I presumed that thing called computer may become the powerful thing of the future's world, and I found out later that my assumption was true and its result was amazing..
Of all the things I am surprised of is the fact that different professions vary in accordance to the country's culture, economy and development..
For instance, if an electric engineer would go to Canada and work he would face difficulties.
He may not get a job because he's expected to have the capability in line with their standard and discipline..
In order to fulfill that he need to learn and pass various examinations.
It's only after he adjusted himself to the prevailing level that he could perform his job.
The field of medicine is similar.
But the one that has acceptability in all fields is computer technology.
It doesn't have difference in any country.
Of course, some standards are being designed now.
However, the field of computer makes one busy.
It needs caution, it needs thinking.
It needs to take many things in to consideration.
Because the job is fire some, many people don't want to take it as a profession.
Addis Zemen: computer is known for having great contribution to work facilitation and reducing tiredness..
And you're saying it's tiresome, would you explain it to me.
Mr. Fiker: our work is to make the computer work.
To me that computer fulfills its purpose for the user. .
Our task is to enable the computer think and serve.
In order to accomplish this, there are certain programs to be worked out.
What's a program?
In order to answer this question, we have to see it broadly.
Computer has its own directions.
Each direction tells the computer what to do.
These instructions put together are called program.
That is, by entering the computer it could decide the communication between people.
Therefore, our task is to primarily think and design.
Addis Zemen: After you went to Canada from Rome in what profession were you in?
Mr. Fikre: I knew my profession would enable me get reliable job in Canada..
But it would be difficult to get job immediately due to my job efficiency..
Although I put forward as many applications, the responses I got were not satisfactory.
After that, I reduced my job efficiency and applied to one company for a ‘junior programmer' position.
I got a job as a result of this.
At the company where I got the job, we were two programmers and a boss.
At the first month, I had the capability to perform the tasks of the two..
I was registering result, too.
In the second month our boss resigned and left.
In the third month after he went, the company's higher bosses asked me to take his position.
I immediately became controller of programmer.
I think I got this opportunity because working software programs is tough.
The job may be tough for some but easy for others.
As a matter of chance, it was easy for me.
The programs I do have become precise and good.
For some, it would be tiresome to find difficulties in the program.
Addis Zemen: what's a computer?
What about Software.
Mr. Fikre: computer is a broad subject.
If we want to put it briefly we can put it in three categories.
The first is called personal computer and this are computers that could work alone.
They call the second one as super computer and Mini computer.
These are meant for middle-level companies.
Such kinds of computers can serve up to two thousand users.
Their tasks also vary.
For example, they could perform engineering works or else could perform production yields.
The third is called main frame computer.
This serves for big and heavy industries.
It has the capacity to collect a lot of data.
In Ethiopia, I mostly saw personal computers.
Mini computers are few.
Software's have also levels.
The first one is what is called operating system (Agafari), it is known that computers is done by electronic instruments (devices).
It's he software that moves those (instruments).
When the Agafari is pressed it means the computer is ready to take as well as give command.
This means that a communicative language has started.
The other is called "application" software.
This is software that could perform special task for the user.
There is word processor software that enables words to express easily.
This has a limited function of only processing words.
Hence, there is an instruction in the process that tells how to create files and how to write.
How to print, magnify, enlarge and create lines, it has become easy to perform each application software..
Addis Zemen: what's the study you make previously on computer.
Mr. Fikre: It was reporting to decision-making bodies by identifying the problems computer can create in our company by the year 2000.
Based on this, I started my research.
Since I knew the software's of each company, I tried to show in details in my study what effects it could have. .
Based on the research, I put forward three kinds of remedies.
The first was what would happen to the company if we don't take any measure.
It would give answer to this question.
According to the study, nothing would happen.
But we have to employ many workers.
This pointed out that we have to get permission from our company to have about half a million dollar.
The problem the year 2000 could bring about was not as such mal functioning but mixing issues related to dates.   .
Or else it gives mixed up responses to questions related to dates.
For instance, a person retires at the age of 65 according to Canadian law.
When he exactly reaches 65 he'll be sent a cheque at home..
The computer that does this would affect the person if it has problem of dates.
The man might have been born in 1960.
The computer would write him a cheque in 1997.
The next year it would give him a cheque in line with the figures..
In 1999 the man would get his retiring cheque for he becomes 69 years.
Since these computers which are expected to create problems, have no four digits, they would be forced to deduct form 0 by 2000.
Therefore, the man who was born in 1930 wouldn't get a cheque by 2000 for the computer would deduct his age 30, and makes it below zero.
Due to this it means that at one time Canadian Retirement strategy would be disrupted.
To amend this, it would help to enable the computer read four digits..
This problem was not considered by software producers twenty years before.
But software's produced after nine years were made not to face this problem.
Actually, there are cases where it's being done as an option.
It asks whether to do in two or four digits.
Thus, the first remedy that is, it wouldn't bring about any difficulty if we didn't make anything, so let's employ certain workers.
The second was finding the issues that are related to dates and amending them.
Then if this is the case, we need to employ five programmers.
If they work for two years consecutively they would solve the problem..
However, we have to expend 800 thousand dollars for them.
The third idea was changing the old computers with new ones.
For the long-term plan, this would be the convenient way.
And for this we have to expend 1.2 million Birr.
I presented these solutions for decision-makings.
They liked the last idea and when I came here they were changing the old computer with new ones.
Addis Zemen: could computer problem arise in our country?
Mr. Fikre: what was heard in Ethiopia was a little bit exaggerated.
There are very few computers like the ones in Ethiopia.
There are not many works that the year 2000 computer problem is related with.
Personal computer users would never face problems..
Perhaps small computers which were made of the old software's and if the number is two-digit, it will have problems.
But since the problem was identified eight years ago, it was resolved..
Since computers stated to get in to Ethiopia after the problem was resolved, There won't be any problem.
Even if the problem exists, it shouldn't be seen as a big difficulty.
Addis Zemen: what initiated you to do the Amharic software called the Geez font?
Mr. Fekre: The position wouldn't give me any other opportunity other than the one I have now, Manager of Management Information System..
The company which I administer operates six hundred million dollars per year..
And I thought it would kill my profession if I am inclined towards management work.
Therefore, I believed I was expected to do the technical and managerial work integrative.
And completing this task would ask for a little sacrifice.
And for sacrifice working eight hours a day is not sufficient.
At least it needs 14 hours of work a day.
So, I wanted to sacrifice a little and decided to do so.
When I thought about this, "why do not I attempt to create something helpful to my fellow people?'
I asked my self.
I started doing research in subject area about producing Amharic software – it made it easier for me to produce one.
It took me eight months to complete the work.
Addis Zemen: why did you give it a name Geez font?
Mr. Fikre: To my mind, Geez seems to me the father of Amharic.
Hence, it took a position that in order that Amharic software develops, it has to start somewhere.
I want Geez to be the basis for development..
Due to this I used the name Geez.
I used ‘font' because the entire technology I used are of font.
I believe that in order to develop the Amharic letter in line with computer, in most ways, it's the font technology that we should use.
Addis Zemen: how convenient are the Amharic letters to computers?.
Mr. Fikre: we professionals know the language of computers.
We are not linguists.
The question that may create problem for us is that which letters and languages should we accept?
These kinds of problems should be resolved by linguists.
Efforts are being made to create computerized standardization where all can use.
On the other hand, if linguists gather and standardize letters if would be easier for our works.
Unfortunately, we can create standards of letters.
We don't have the skills and professional efficiency.  .
Addis Zemen: how do you see our country's computer usage strategy?
Mr. Fikre: the problem we have in Ethiopia is the inability to use computer power appropriately.
If we buy computer to use it for writing purposes, it can be compared as buying and using truck for the purpose of buying a monthly expense.
This means we never use the power it has fully for services?
If we want it for writing purposes, it would be better to buy typewriter.
Perhaps if it gives writing service for eight years, it may be good..
However, as I see it, the majority of the people didn't get the service the computer could give.  .
Indeed, computer service varies according to the area.
If it is a small organization, you may study and examine about project provided you connect it to the internet.    .
You can put in place, software that can strong them your accounting.
Because the use of the computer means doing works efficiently which are repetitive.
It would avid repetitive tasks.
It helps to work efficiently.
If there is problem in accounts, and if handling money shows wastage, working procedure is chaotic, the computer could help it.
Because computer has a lot of numerical strategies.
As a result, organizations could avoid damages and bring about speedy developments.
Addis Zemen: It's said that computer aggravates unemployment; how far is this true?
Mr. Fikre: This is not a correct concept.
Computer service should go in balance with a country's prosperity.
If computer working strategy were to dismiss people from work, the computers in each organization would be able to dismiss many workers.
At the moment, the number of unemployed number in America is below 4.8.
It needs to be broadly aware of about the use of a computer.
The first us of it is to be productive, and increase production immensely, as well as avoiding redundant works.
This would enable growth at the level of a company.
It would prosper a country's economy.
When economy booms, the unemployed gets the work one wants.
Perhaps at one place, one person might be sacked.
On the other hand, at another place there'll be vacant places for five people.
When computer technology is expanded its impact on the economy of a country is immense.
Addis Zemen: what did you feel when you return to Ethiopia after twenty years.
Mr. Fikre: In the previous regime, every thing used to incline to politics.
Economic development was not seen.
I was obliged to leave the country then for there was no good condition.
But now economic development is underway.
This is one encouraging change.
Big institutions are being built everywhere.
This is an indication of economic development..
The company I work for is involved in construction field.
Addis Zemen: In which development field would you like to involve in the future?  .
Mr. Fikre: I saw many computer companies.
This has great contribution for introducing the technology.
I am thinking of coming to Ethiopia to invest money and do my level best.
I will share my skill and profession for my fellow people.
I have a plan to perform my share in the economic construction.
Together with other I am willing to create situations that would enable the country to develop.
I'm studying some situations to do this.
After ensuring suitable situations I will return in a year's time.
But now I came on vacation.
Yet, I'm doing certain things that are important and go back.
When the computer standard association was recently established, I contributed my share.
Addis Zemen: Do you have anything that should be given focus vis-à-vis social life in our county.
Mr. Fikre: First of all, focus should be given on being punctual, doing big or little tasks efficiently without erring and respecting work whatever kind it might be.
Canadians developed it as a common thing, and since it is crucial for development, it seems to me that it would be better if it is given focus here, too..
From Addis Zemen October 11, 1998
"In order to stop the emigration of wise men, the clergy requires caution."
The fact that the news of a reformation movement which was on a level of malicious gossip for many years, now being officially declared by the clergy is to be admired, it was disclosed that the clergy should take caution for under the camouflage of "reformation" wise men of Orthodox church could emigrate..
Last week in different tabloids, especially in the one named "Hamer", took up reformation monks who were condemned and among them there were insiders like "Aba Gerima Tesfaye" and those sides pointed out that Aba Gerima Tesfaye is the one who highly condemns reformers, respected, and in his teachings highly popular scholar among the Christian laity..
Due to this reason, Satan out of jealousy, acted upon him as is commonly known and considered him an enemy, otherwise we never doubt that he's not are former, they said..
These sides mentioned other spiteful news..
The enemy rumor went against the experienced preacher, Aba Wolde Tensae Ayalneh, whom the clergy as well as the Christian laity know very well, and referred him as a "reformer"..
But this Holy Father is at the moment teaching the good news in different states in American and has been a great support to many fellow Christians abroad..
His popularity has become world wide; his gospel teachings abroad have been recorded in cassettes and sent to Ethiopia, has been used by many Christians..
He's still in the service of the gospel, but the church and the laity missed him..
Our clergy should deeply look in to these godly people whom the church brought up with her discipline not to be victims of the enemy, he pleaded..
These several people of the Orthodox Christians' faith who assuredly described Aba Gerima's lives and his firmness in his faith and love said that there are people who have double-face like a bat, and who approach these people in different directions to that people who excel them in education and skills do not come out of the church to fulfill their nightmares, with the help of their supporters, contemptuously hoping they would be heard, in the pretext of helping the church, they wanted to hurt her, hence, the wise men of the church are expected to differentiate the truth from the take, sifting the straw out of the wheat..
In relation to this, before reformation came to light like now, even in 1992 and 1993 when nobody seems to know its existence, those who called Aba Wolde Tensae "reformer" won't keep their mouth closed when they get such a coincidence, and therefore, it is to be reckoned that our church not only have enemies form afar but from within, insiders. .
All of us are trying our best to enable orthodox faith to continue as it was, and while explaining about what he knows about aba Gerima, he said Aba Gerima Tesfaye was sent from northern Wollo clergy and learned for four years in saint Paul high school and after completion due to his knowledge and eloquence different churches in Addis Ababa wanted him to be assigned at their place, but the one who sent him for education, Northern wollo Clergy his Beatitude Arch Bishop kevlos pleaded to the Holy synod he wanted him back and therefore was not assigned in Addis, this we know..
But there were many churches that needed him, he said..
He certainly told that he doesn't have the characteristics of heretic.     .
Taking in to account what was said by commentators, we also asked about Aba Gerima those who worked in the clergy..
The response we were given was he's not to be suspected of "reformist"..
They wanted to remain anonymous..
Although we attempted to find and speak aba Gerima vis-à-vis the comments forwarded, we couldn't find them, couldn't trace his permanent address, we reported only the comments of church laity..
From Fiameta April 29, 1998
The police Training England Gives Brought About a Protest
As soon as the Prime Mister Tony Blair's labor Party held power it said, "we don't strengthen dictatorship by the money which was earned from the fax-paying people of Britain, without democracy, there's no aid," but now declining from this statement, decided to give police training to those countries which hit torture and kill opposition politicians, religious people and human right activists, which provoked fury among many British citizens, and many refugees from different countries living in England, "The Sunday Times" disclosed.
In its November 9/1997 edition, countries like Kenya, Indonesia, and China which torture and kill their own police force training and aid, has now continued for a policy change has been made on the part of the government, which made many furious, the news paper mentioned and without making sure that the mentioned countries have improved their records of keeping human rights, they asked the government not to implement the decision, it explained.
On the other hand, the news paper which is regarded as proponent of the leftist and which is published daily in London "the Guardian", in its November 6/1997 edition disclosed that the lifting of the sanction to give police training and aid to Ethiopia has brought about protest among Ethiopians.
Just because the EPRDF government has accepted the appointment of Ambassador Gordon Geofferey witherelen which it has delayed for five months, the labor government which had propounded "without democracy there's no aid" has suddenly shifted its decision and the sanction to train police and give aid, that was laid for sometime has been lifted and decided to give the training and aid, which showed that the sanction from the outset was not real and it was not made considering the people, the Ethiopian disclosed.
The members of the community opposing this decision are now preparing to conduct a campaign against those, individuals and at a community level who distorted the news and for the journal is who wrote unbalanced news in the newspaper, both by writing through his address and a copy of this to the newspaper.
The members mentioned that it made them very sorrowful to rule out the promise he gave to the people not to give such aid that was collected from the tax-payer public to governments like Ethiopia, and they explained that they condemned the act and said they would disclose indifferent ways this to human rights activists organizations, and the international community.
It was to be recalled that the international human rights organization AMNESTY International made a call to the entire world that starting from the recent killing of Assefa Maru, the killings, tribulation, and illegal arrest enacted by EPRDF government on the peaceful citizens of the country and the free press journalists should urgently be taken measures against it.
From Tobia November 20, 1997
Mayor Arkebe Equabay awarded Being the year's Best African Mayo.
Mayor Arkebe Equabay was called the year's best African mayor and awarded by Broadcasting Network of Africa, the ministry of Foreign Affairs disclosed.
The ministry quoting the EFDR embassy at Pretoria disclosed yesterday that Mayor Arkebe was awarded on March 30, 2005 in Johannesburg by a South African organization called Broadcasting Network Africa, at an annual award ceremony at the Santen Convention Center.
It was Mrs. Mebrat Beyene charge d' affairs at EFDR embassy in Pretoria who received the Mayor's award being present in the award ceremony; there were diplomats, reps of awarded organizations and invited guests during the award ceremony.
The awarding organizations pointed out that it gives an award every year for different sectors of African organizations which have registered high results.
As it was mentioned in the award ceremony, Mayor Arkebe Equabay was awarded for ruling over governance, fighting HIV/AIDS, improving tax collection, solving the problem of housing and the city's cleanliness.
From Addis Zemen, April 6, 2005
Two People's Representatives were Banishe.
In Addis Ababa, district 15 private candidates and representatives, Mr. Zenebe Alemayehu and Dessie town representative, Mr. Yusuf Ahmed, were banished from their country last week, they disclosed in the "Reporter" newspaper, September 11 edition and in the September 10th edition of "Ethio-Time" newspaper.
The Reporter in that day edition, "... Mr. Zenebe Alemayehu was one of the few reps in the council, where the majority seat was occupied by EPRDF, and has been voicing a strong opposition," it said.
The newspaper reported in relation to this, as a result of the opposing ideas he raised in the council, the injustice acted upon him, his families and supporters greatly worried him.
Ethio-time on its part, expressed Mr. Zenebe Alemayehu who won privately from district 15, and Mr. Yusuf Ahmed, from Dessie representing Mr. Kifle Wodajo's party and who won a seat in the council, are both said to " be extremely sick and tired of mockery and worried of the haste" in the council, so they went to America legally, it disclosed.
In the 55th plenary session of the council of representatives and during Prime Minister Meles, together with his cabinet ministers, gave explanation and elucidation about the 1998 budget plan and preparation, among the questions Mr. Zenebe raised were the absence of audit report, the enormity of Defense budget and the subsidy given to regions and "the obviousness of the incompatibility of regional developments", these questions and suggestions brought about offensive remarks such as "Bitter enemies of Tigrean people" and, this in turn, uncovered the difference, the newspaper reported.
From Tobia September 11, 1997
Student's case in being cooperatively seen by MPs' permanent Committee
The complaints the Addis Ababa University students presented to the parliament is looked in to by social and legislative issues permanent committee cooperatively.
In the meeting the two committees held yesterday, they discussed on the application and questions the students put forward, deciding to discuss with organizations that have direct relations to the issue..
Mr. Harka Haroye the secretary of parliament's social Affairs permanent committee, expressed in a telephone massage to the reporter of the news paper, that the organizations the two permanent committees would discuss ministry of Education, and Federal Police commission..
This as it is the Addis Ababa University reminded that in order to restart urgently class that were disrupted, a temporary committee by formed that consists of teacher and students, ENA reported..
The university in the reminder it gave in different faculties stated that in order to resolve students questions through the necessary discussion with the senate, students should send one member from each department, within the coming ten days, through the coordination of department heads..
Moreover, teachers committee would be formed in each faculty's academic commission that help the senate, particularly to point out ways to make-up classes, the university reminded..
In addition, the earlier committee that represents the senate and discussed remedial ideas with the student representatives, and follow-up their implementation, is asked to start urgently its work..
In the mean time, students, teachers and committees that this issue refers to are reminded to contribute their part in the effort to start classes urgently.   .
From Addis Zemen May 3, 200.
Is Mengistu Hailemariam's Going to South Africa a News Worth Disseminating broadly.
The Minister of Securit.
Opposing the news coverage time given by the news media that the ex-leader of Ethiopia, Colonel Mengistu Hailemariam's going to South Africa last week for higher medical aid, Sydney sekrimay, Zimbabwe's national Security minister said "should one person's going to south Africa for medication worth disseminating widely?.
He disclosed to Zimbabwe's Independent News.
The Independent News uncovered that Mengistu Hialemariam asked for entrance visa when he was to leave, but the South African authorities expressed that he has been given a diplomatic passport and so they expressed to him that he doesn't need visa, and he went, it explained.
On the other hand, the South African Authorities didn't give visa to Mengistu Hailemairam because they didn't want to get in to contradiction with the Ethiopian government and to avoid international protest, the report of the newspaper pointed out.
Internal sources expressed that the Zimbabwe government not only previously informed the South African officials the travel of Mengistu but also reminded that he return safely with out any problem after he completes his medication.
Since it was not possible to know the problem Mengistu has by Zimbabwe doctors, he went to South Africa an it's unknown how long he would stay there, and this is decided by the change he gets there as a result of his medication, the newspaper concluded.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
A Press Statement is to Be Released about Emperor Haile Selassie!
Emperor Haile selassie Memorial Organization is going to release Press statement for national and international journalists on February 9, 1999.
Led by Bitweded Zewdie Gebre Hiwot this Emperor Haile Silassie I memorial organization was registered to the Minister of Justice, office of Registration of Associations on February 12, 1999, and was granted permission to operate.
The government announced that the emperor's corpse which was kept temporarily in Taeka Negest St.Mary monastery is now going to be moved to the Trinity cathedral and funeral rite would be conducted.
As to when this is to be conducted, nothing is known as yet.
It is expected to be official Monday in the press statement the Management committee releases..
It is to be recalled that the late Emperor Haile Selassie's corps was found buried by the toilet of ex-president colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam; its funeral ceremony is going to be conducted with honor and reverence after 25 years, the related news it reached us stated.  .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
The Council disclosed that it would Participate in two Great Parliamentary Sessions that would take Place in Africa
The people's Representative council would participate in two great parliamentary sessions that would be conducted in Africa recently, the Council's Foreign Defense and Security Issues Standing Committee disclosed.
As the council disclosed yesterday, it would take part recently in the Third All African Parliamentary Assembly and in the Ninth ACAPA European Union Parliaments coalition Assembly that is to be held in Mali.
The All African Parliamentary Assembly would be discussing on the continent's policies, budget and issues that are given focus by African Union.
The All African Parliament is doing its share of consultancy on continental matters and in five years' time it would build up its capacity to become the legislative body, information and public relations Department of the council disclosed.
The assembly that would take place in Mali by the coalition of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries' Parliaments and European Union Parliament would have consultative meeting based on the cotton's agreement, on ways of ruling over and strengthening good governance and democratic order and on ways of subsidizing budgetary support, in the form of regular budget by the European Union. .
The ACAPA countries' parliaments would conduct separate meetings and would establish a consultative body that keeps their mutual benefits, it was reported.
The Ethiopian delegation which constitutes five members team that participates in All African Parliamentary Session is led by the House Speaker Dawit Yohannes, it was pointed out.
From Addis Zemen March 24, 200.
The Security Council Expressed its Concern for Eritrea have Engaged Numerous Force in the Security Zone
The United Nations Security council expressed its concern about the numerous militia and police fore Eritrea engaged in the temporary security zone.
In a report the United Nations Security Council Secretary General presented to the council about Ethio-Eritrea's case on June 20, 2001, the council looked in to it and released a statement the day before yesterday calling Eritrea to sign with the UN regarding the force she is engaging in the region.
In the statement it reminds that Eritrea should, especially, respect unconditionally the free movement of the peace-keeping force in the region.  .
The statement that care out in the name of the president of the council, asked both sides to agree on the border demarcation of the peace region..
It also called upon them that they work to develop mutual trust between them.
Moreover the council asked the president of the council to talk the ambassadors of both countries, the statement disclosed.
The council also called fro the international community to continue strengthening the humanitarian aid they give to the war displaced victims, the statement pointed out.
From Addis Zemen June 27, 2001 .
Explosives were Thrown in Harar Town
Two explosives which blasted in 40 minutes gap at 8 o'clock in the evening on November 2, 1998 at Babile Mineral Water Factory, in Harar town have incurred serious damage on the stone wall of the factory around the water outlet, our eastern Ethiopia reporter disclosed.
The attack which targeted the motor of the factory would have destroyed the factory as a whole, but these were no human casualties, the report mentioned.
At the moment the groups who have incurred the damage have not been known, and they were not captured, but there was a wide rumor that is being heard referring them as "hardliner insurgents who are assumed to have gotten in to the town", the reporter disclosed.
In the man time, there was a serious gun fire exchange in the night by the side of where the factory is situated to Erer direction, our reporter disclosed quoting the area residents, but they couldn't say the gun fire exchange between who and who.
From Tobia November 6, 1997
"Tigrean National, the Segment of Alula" is Expanding in Tigray
Since the division among the central committee of TPLF, not only does this has led to creting divisions but also grown to organizing, the news we received from Makale Tomar reporter pointed out.
The activity that was carried out underground opposing the wing that's led by Mr. Meles Zenawi, operates under the motto "Tigrean national, the segment of Alula" and spreads its web in different parts of the region, the report expressed.
This opposition movement is being expressed through absenteeism on meetings called by the government, not participating in development activities, and exempting oneself from election, disclosed in related news.
Since this public opposition is taking root and in order to control the areas, close and loyal individuals to the ruling party (the opposition youngsters call them Yets Megn) have started to be appointed, the report pointed out, and as an evidence, he mentioned that all administrators in Temben are from Adowa.
In a related news, Mr. Sebhat Nega's sister who was appointed chairman of Makele Zone, Tigray Region president's wife, Mrs. Kidusan Nega, has dismissed the chairpersons of districts of Mekale town who were previously elected by the people, and in their places, assigned people from the sub-districts; and this should that the administration is worried about people and it was an act of assigning leadership positions to those who are loyal to Mr. Meles, the sources disclosed.  .
On the other hand, the gourp clash amongst Makele Youth since recently, has become beyond the control of government security forces, and the youngsters haven't stopped fighting fixing dates and places, the report uncovered.
The Makale Town Administration which seemed to have lost control over the situation and couldn't take measures beyond organizing speedy security guards, have become a concern, it was said..
The report finally mentioned that the money that is used to be paid up to now in the name of "Tigrean Families of martyrs" to building their financial capacity has stopped being paid to the "Families of Martyrs" and, hence, they are found in desperate living conditions, condemning the regime, it was said.
From Tomar January 22, 200.
Ethiopia was the 32nd country to approve the agreement for the establishment of African Union, UN disclosed
Ethiopia was the 32nd country to approve the agreement that was presented for the establishment of African Union, (UN) disclosed..
The organization in a statement he sent to ENA yesterday it disclosed it heard through Dr. Tekeda Alemu that the council of people's representative in its 21t regular session approved the agreement for the establishment of the union, and following this, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi signed on the document..
Leaders and governments of African countries in the special meeting they attend form march 2-3, 2001 in Libya they declared the establishment of African Union, UN disclosed.
The Union would be operational when two – third or 36 African countries approved, UN disclosed.
Addis Zemen March 12, 2001
Mr. Maeregu Bezabeh was Released on Bail
Mr. Maeregu Bezabeh, who was accused of genocide and editor-in-chief of Addis Zemen newspaper during the dergue regime, in a Federal High Court's decision passed yesterday, was to follow his ease being released on bail..
The Sixty criminal bench of the court decided that the accused be released on bail summoning a five hundred Birr guarantor or paying the money after the special prosecutor General investigated the charge and evidence it produced and the legal article doesn't prohibit bail right for the charge he was accused for.  .
Since the 35 witnesses the special prosecutor brought didn't testify that the accused participated in the said crime and the produced written evidence didn't coincide with the article of the law the court passed the decision, charging the article of the law..
The lawyer of the accused appealed that his client follow his case being released on bail since the changed article of the law doesn't prohibit bail right and got positive response so the curt session allowed bail right for the accused..
The lawyer explained that the accused is pensioner and responsible of a family, so it ordered to summon a 500 Birr guarantor or pay 500 Birr, himself and be released from arrest..
From Addis Zemen June 8, 2001
Impress Bitrik's Birthday will be celebrated tomorrow in Addis Ababa..
Empress Bitrik's birthday which is celebrated colorfully in Netherlands would also be, celebrated colorfully in Addis Ababa at Netherlands embassy tomorrow, it was disclosed to our newspaper.
The birthday of the Empress which is now celebrated as a national day has been conventionally commemorated since 1891..
In the birthday party to be thrown tomorrow in the premise of the embassy, higher officials of the Ethiopian government and ministers, international and diplomatic members, religious fathers, renown business people and invited guests would be present.
As a reporter from Fiameta would be in the party, we would present in the future if anything special occurs.
From Fiameta April 29, 199.
Araph Moi Disclosed that He Would Sack Corrupted Officials.
In order to urgently stop the act of embezzling government's money, and taking bribe, one special Investigating team was assigned and Araph Moi gave instructions that the Kenyan government would take measures against officials pre-pointed by this team, it was reported.
Since Corruption and condition of bribery in Kenya have not only widely spread out but it has started growing up, government was obliged to oust officials who are involved in this dangerous nation-wide issue..
The cause for Opening up the door for corruption is believed to be the formation of many ministry offices, and, hence, it was pointed out that reduction measures would be taken.
In a seminar opened at a Saferi Club for Workers of Accounting and financial management, the Cabinet Minister Professor Angari reminded that officials who are involved in corruption would be dismissed from their job.
He warned for the 60 member participants.
Professor Angari, in his speech added that those working in finance and are far from accountability and clarity would be dismissed.
In a warning he gave in line with this, he said.
"Either working with professionals properly or leave the job and go away, that's the only choice we have..
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
The Fire Accident Resulted in Damage on Human and property estimated at 2.7 Million Birr
The fuel career truck turned upside down in Addis Ababa, district 21 and 20 and resulted in fire accident on humans and animals.
An estimation of 2.7 million Birr property was destroye.
Yesterday at 7:30 at a place commonly called "Beg Tera", on the way to kera a fire stated and one person died while 7 individuals had small and severe injury.
The fuel career truck which was the cause for the start of the fire; two home cars and 11 houses and shops, spare parts stores, cows and sheep and dogs were burned..
Among the victims whom we talked at the place, Mr. Bahiru Jemal has lost an estimated 80 thousand Birr property, Mr. Berhanu Yirga 40 thousand Birr property Mrs. Kassech Hurisa 10 thousand Birr properties were lost, they expressed.
The individuals expressed that the fuel that spills from the fuel career truck has aggravated the fire accident, and told that he couldn't come to the rescue of his properties and money except the clothes he wor.
If Fire brigade didn't reach on time and put off the fire, the surrounding houses could have been devastated..
Lieutenant Tewdros Masresha Head of Fire protection and predication Operation Department explained to the newspaper reporter that in order to put the fire under control a four hour protective effort was conducted..
From Addis Zemen May 6, 2001.
The Peace Effort Itself is an Impediment  to Stop the Wa.
Reportag.
In his New Year message, the Ethiopian President Dr. Negasso Gidada pointed out that the peace effort which has been looked forward for so long to bring about lasting solution has now turned gloomy as a result of the inclusion of technicalities by third party interventionist in the peace effort.
According to president Negasso's speech, because some third party forces consider the aggressor and the aggressed on equal footing, the sought-for peace had been marred.
If this is not going to be achieved, Ethiopia would safeguard its territory through Nile this year, and called upon the army to be ready for this while the people should be standing by for the usual support.
On the other hand, political observers who follow-up Ethio Eritrean conflict pointed out that the peace effort wouldn't succeed, and in fact, there seems to be a tendency of continuing the war.
This is manly because America is merely attempting to press and protect her own advantage.
Other than giving Essayas' administration favorable time to buy, the several attempts of the peace efforts haven't done any good; although it has passed a year since Ethiopian and Eritrean war broke, except a one-time-hard-effort that succeeded in wiping out Eritrean forces from Bademe front and surroundings.
Most Ethiopians are speaking with regret that the time wasted on peace efforts harmed Ethiopia by giving favorable time for EPLF force to mobilize and prepare themselves.
Since the war broke, not only has standard of living been skyrocketed, but also new jobs could not be opened.
Thus elongation of the war has created a lot of damage. If she can't restore the land that was taken from her, Ethiopia should, once and for all, make great preparation to keep her territorial integrity so that she could look forward to development, according to the opinion poll.
The International pressure that enforces Ethiopia is not to be seen lightly.
While the major perpetrator is United States of America, the plan is meant, in two-ways, to put Ethiopia in trouble.
The plan is to rule out exemption from writing off debts and, secondly, from any kind of aid that was offered from IMF and World Bank in the future, if Ethiopia doesn't accept the cease-fire without any condition.
With Ethiopian land being occupied by Eritreans, and with Eritrean forces leaving the occupied Ethiopian land without any binding agreement, it would be unlawful to oblige Ethiopia to sign the cease-fire agreement, and, hence, Ethiopia didn't accept it.
It could't accept it.
However, before taking forceful measures to retake the land occupied by force, it would be a timely act to take international diplomatic campaign with organization of African Unity as well United Nations, in order to avert their Eritrean-biased decision.   .
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
Dead People were Secretly Burie.
The report that reached us stated that some farmers in the southern peoples' Regional Administration were exposed to severe misery.
The brutality and suppression inflicted by the regional, zonal and district officials have been aggravated from time to time..
The other sad scene is that there are people who are arrested and killed, the exclusive report that came from Fiameta reads as follows:
Taxation has increased three and four fold, price for fertilizers has skyrocketed; those farmers who put forward these complaints to Keficho Shekicho Zone council have been looked for and some were put behind bars in Bonga city prison while others in Masha city prison without any court order.
Moreover, close to 700 children, youngsters, adults and the old in sidama Zone, Hagere Selam District, special name cheticha were taken very far from their homes and put behind bars in Aleta Wendo District Police Station, Awasa District Police Station, Belate National Military Service Training premise, and in some other location where relative couldn't trace their whereabouts and provide food and supplies..
Among the arrested fellow members in Awasa City Police Station, around 7 people were dead due to hunger and illness and so were taken to an unknown location in the night and their corpses were buried..
Among those who were behind bars in Belate National Military Service Training Center, approximately 15 people were suddenly killed as a result of a blast of previously-unexploded-bomb in the premise while the victims were "out-housing" in the field.
Half of them were killed as a result of mosquito bite and hunger..
Among these 700 farmers, there were children whose ages were only 12.
There are also elderly priests and sheiks whose ages were close to 90..
The officials who were responsible for putting these poor farmers behind bars, and doing the injustices are as follows:
1.  Mr. Abate Kisho - President of Regional Administration.
2.  Mr. Wakeyu Demesa - Ex-Deputy Chairman of Sidama Zone Council and Presently                                       Administrator of Shebedino Zone.
3.  Mr. Samuel Sheba - Ex-Police Commissioner of Sidama Zone and Presently Deputy                                    Chairman of Sidama Zone Council, while the above three are the                                 ones who play principal role in this atrocities,
4.  Lientenant Mesele - (Chief Commander of Shebedino District Police station).
5.  Mr. Getahun - (Administrator of Hegere Selam District).
6.  Asfaw Amache - (A soldier) Sidama Zone Police Kidnap Squad.
Moreover in the five coffee-producers districts in Sidama Zone (Bersa, Dara, Aleta, Wendo, Dalena and Shabedino), around 462 farmers were put behind bars without any charges and court order.
These farmers were taken to Aleta Wendo District Adult Training Center found in chewat Kebele, parents and relatives found these farmers confined in a single room exposed to suffocation, and some of them were dilled as a result of it..
The perpetrators of this drama, who played significant roles in putting these farmers behind bars, are the following:
1.  Mr. Abate Kisho - President of the Regional Administration.
2.  Mr. Samuel Sheba - Ex-Police Commissioner of Sidama Zone and Presently Deputy                                    Chairman of Sidama Zone.
3.  Mr. Bekele Budola - Chairman of the Sidama Zone Development Association and Central                               committee of Sidama Organization, and Wondo Company General                                 Manager..
The cause of the arrest is expected to be 1million Birr debt form Development Bank, the bank that lent the money for fourteen work and service Cooperatives for the work related to washed coffee..
The money was embezzled by officials from the top Regional office down to the district level, including the Associations' Officials, but the poor farmers didn't have anything to do with this.
These 462 farmers became just because they divulged the officials secret.
From Fiameta March 11, 1998
Mekane Yesus Church is to Appoint Female Priests                 .
Just like other work responsibilities, the suggestion that females should get priesthood and work as priests or pastors has started to yet acceptance in world church council, Priest Yadesa Duba Disclosed.
Priest Yadesa Duba, President of Ethiopian Evangelical church, Mekane Yesus, member of the world church council and All African church Deputy President disclosed this in an interview he gave to Fiameta..
When our Lord Jesus Christ came to this world, the bible speaks of how he approached women and children, teaching using different parables, and how among those who, up to the end, followed Jesus in His cross and at his grave yard were women, and so women have special prestige in the church, Priest Yadeta explained. .
With regards to women's priesthood, although it raised a lot of controversies in the world church council, most of the churches gave priesthood to their females, and there are African churches, too, which accept this and made it practical, and the Ethiopian Evangelical church Mekane Yesus is discussing on the issues, the president of the church disclosed. .
Does it have appropriateness to accept such a practice of female priesthood which was not known in Apostle's Law?
In response to the question the newspaper put forward to him, priest Yadesa responded, "since the previous laws were decreed by men, they don't have acceptability and who gave rights to judge that men and clean while females are unclean?
The world church Council works with those sides who hold on the practice of sodomy, and how do you see this, is it to be applauded from the ethics of Christianity?
In response to this question he said, the world church council approves of them like any other on laity that they could go to church, but they should not give any service in the church, out of this the church strongly opposes the act, he disclosed.
On the claim that the Ethiopian Evangelical church Mekane Yesus wrote against the history of the Ethiopian Orthodox monophysitism church, he responded, "The book is not intended to provoke hatred but it was written based on the history of Mekane Yesus church and it should be realized that it doesn't refer to the present Orthodox church," he said.
Priest Yadesa who responded to the questions raised by the reporter with regards to the growing number of religious organizations, theft of the laity and pertinent issues, stated that the growing number of religious organizations in the country at present could create problems and government should make legal control on issuance of certificate for registering religious organizations.
Regarding the condition of theft of laity from Orthodox Church, he said that the action is not proper and those churches who involved in such activity should be refrained, he disclosed.             .
We would like to disclose that the interview priest Yadesa Duba, Ethiopian Evangelical Church, Mekane Yesus president and member of world church Council, gave to Fiameta newspaper would be published accordingly in the future..
From Fiameta June 30, 1999
Message of Fiameta
The Designating Feature of Democratic Government is its openness
A democratic government which is chosen by the people and which stands to serve the people has its aim to make all the works it does vis-à-vis political social and economic issues and the resolutions it pass clear to the people.
With authoritarian governments this culture is missing..
Whether the people knows or not, without consulting and informing the people, issues of a country and the people would be operational merely on leaders' will..
Due to this, most of the work couldn't give solutions to the people's burning questions and puts the country into a worst trouble.
However, in a democratic government order, not only is there any thing done out of the people's interest and will, but also both positive and negative issues that happened in the country would be announced to the people on time..
Since suppressing things that happened or undermining and misinforming are considered betraying people's trust, the democratic order oblige to put straight all phenomena without misdirection.
Government in consultation with the people would seek remedy for the bad situations on the ground.
Out of this, there's no mechanism where people cannot take participation in the matters that concerns them and to willingly accept whatever is decided by the leadership..
Unfortunately, the way things are done in Africa is to nominally accept democracy but not respecting human rights, which is the first chapter of democracy..
Although it's common to hear that the people elected their leaders democratically, the democratically elected leadership bodies soon prove, to be non-democrats with their deeds..
The leadership group in everything he does is not open into the people who elected it..
As soon as the African leadership bodies hold power, they pare theirs and their dears' future lives with the people's money, and so put the people into the abysmal poverty, turning his lives into hell.    .
When causes of the country's problems are pin-pointed to the people in the free press, the governments have an experienced culture of taking server measures on journalists..
Nevertheless, sooner the crime these journalists have been accused of would be uncovered and every time it's observed exposing each government.     .
In most respects the situation In Ethiopia is better than several African countries..
However, among the many missing things, the main one is that government doesn't show openness.
The situations happening in many national issues are concealed from the public or misinforming the public through government medias or even sooner the real situation would be exposed in detail by foreign medias and the people would hear it..
This operating mechanism that becomes common from time to time and which lacks openness makes the people to lose trust on the government..
Just before Eritrean government and EPLF leadership invaded Ethiopia, it was a recent memory to observe the former commanding Ethiopia more than Ethiopians do..
After the border conflict surfaced it was disclosed that the EPLF government was conducting spying information and fund-raising activities through its underground anti-Ethiopian organization.  .
Yet people believe that it would be difficult to say that government was unaware of it when the organization has been operating for a long time.
Moreover, at the time EPLF invaded Ethiopia, Ethiopian oppositions inside and outside the country stood together with the government to defend the invading enemy, asking to work together on the future issues of Ethiopia when the response given to these forces was heard that they are not Ethiopians, but enemies that should not be concerned with issues pertaining to their country, whether our government is democratic has become questionable..
The quest does not stop here but while it is said that we are following the democratic path, and when people hear the refusal of government officials to accept the negotiation, they are troubled to make out as to what kind of path we're following.    .
Since the recent clash in the Southern People Region between Gedio and Guditu nationalities and the resulting severe causalities and displacement was not officially disclosed, it has become the other issue that lacks openness..
The statement that was given after sometime was imbalanced, detached from the main issue an aimed at accusing the free press, which simply showed that it was not open.   .
What we tried to show above is to pin point that there shouldn't be hide and seek game between government and people, government should tell the truth to the people, and it would build trust in the people only when he strengthens this culture.
So if government wants to prove the path it is following is really a democratic order we say that it has to be open in the first place..
From Fiameta Sunday Edition September 6, 1998
The Appointment of the General Manager Aroused Controversy!
Due to M.G Aba Hailemariam's appointment last week as a General manager of Addis Ababa City Parish, Aba Paulos had a difference of opinion with his families, which aroused a great controversy..
The former Arada Ghiourgis church Administrator M.G Aba Hailemariam  who had been given this position by the patriarch to substitute Aba Gebremichael Beyene, who left the position due to the new bishop-elect and who by now have been victim of car accident; in order to fulfill Aba Paulos' interest, although he accepted the offer through a lot of go betweens, the Patriarch's nephew Mr. Yared and his supporters attempted to avert this decision of the Patriarch, the news that reached us from around the clergy pointed out.
According to the news, even though the patriarch had fought hard against his nephew, special secretary (Mr. Yared), and appointed his new friend M/G Aba Hailemariam, there are three different, contradictory things that lay before him.
These are to lick Aba Paulo's boots, or to obey Mr. Yared's will, or else, like the ex-manager, to be indifferent to all.
To live according to the will of all is not possible.
For one slave cannot be bought by two masters..
Mr. Yared, who recognized this before hard, tried his best to avert the appointment, though not succeeded.
To think of working in agreement with the new general manager M/G Aba Hailemariam, Mr. Yared Kebedew and the secretary of the city parish Yohannes Wale would seem very difficult in the eyes of most of the parish workers, and this worry them..
According to the workers of the parish, although Aba Haile Mariam has been claimed to be the right hand of the patriarch, he has never been seen embezzling money, no one thinks of him like that..
Unlike other officials, he nerves feels like neither receiving nor giving gifts..
And if he couldn't embezzle wigh the rest of his new colleagues, he wouldn't embezzle with the rest of his new colleagues, he wouldn't remain in his power for so long, they said..
Meanwhile, starting from members of the synod, many others including so many church leaders who wanted to remain anonymous applauded Aba Mariam's position not to accept his candidacy as bishop-elect.
Aba Paulos who doesn't want the new general manager to be far away from him although searched him and then offered him the authority, it would be unthinkable to assume working with his nephew Mr. Yared and Mr. Yohannes wale..
Unless of course M/G Aba Hailemariam, charged his position and become like the former manager, said the observers..
From Fiameta April 29, 1998
Five Individuals who Incited civil war and Terror in Gambella were Sentenced to Hard Labor
The Federal Higher Court Mobile tribunal has passed on a sentence from 1 up to 14 years of hard labor on five individuals who incited civil war and terror in Gambella region.
In a mobile session of court that was held the day before yesterday in Gambella, the sentence was passed on against Umod Ubong, Ukik Abula, Ubon Awale, Kebede Ukelo and Amed Utow for it was proved by the prosecutor's evidence that these individuals incited chaos and civil war clashes.
In Gambella, on those five individuals who incited terror and civil war, it was decided a hard labor sentence, in particular, the accused Ubon Awale, Umod Ubong and Ukok Abula planning to wipe away all the 28 Nuwer nationality and south Sudan refugees who were the same in culture and religion and were going to Fungnido from Gambella by car in July 2002, at 10 o'clock in the morning, when they reached Alware inspection station, they separated them from other passengers and made them out of the car, and arrested them, the mobile session of court assured from the prosecutor's evidence.
After they arrested these individuals, took them to abush that is found in11 kilometres' distance from the station, beat them with bullets and cut them with degger, killing them, the mobile session of curt proved by people's and written evidences.
Especially, among the accused, Ubon Awasa should have protected the individuals from such dangers, for he is a policeman, was found committing the crime, intensifying the penalty and, hence, as from the date of his red-handed seizure he is sentenced to 14 years hard labor, Mr. Ochan explained.
From Addis Zemen April 2, 2005
The UN High Commission Commissioner for Refugees came to Addis Ababa
The United Nations High commission Commissioner for Refugees Mr. Rud Lubers came to Addis Ababa yesterday for a four-day visit.
In his stay, the Commissioner is expected to met and discuses with Ethiopian High Officials Dr. Salim Ahmed Salim an international donor organizations about security and support refugees in the region.
It's disclosed that Mr. Rud during his stay here, he would visit refugee camps..
On the other hand, in a press statement it dispatched yesterday, the United Nations High commission Commissioner disclosed that in eight station in eastern Ethiopia, there are 121,000 Somalians, and in five stations in western Ethiopian 72, 000 sudanese, around Sheraro area 3,276 Eritreans and 450 refugees with different nationalities in the cities are taken care by the organization's bureau in Ethiopia and the government of Ethiopia. .
The number of refugees in Ethiopia ten years before were 1,000,000 are since then the number reduced greatly and reached 198,000, the organization pointed out, and added saying that about 1 million Ethiopians returned home in the last ten years..
From Addis Zemen April 10, 2001.
The Minister of Justice was Released for 15 days on his request of Obstructio.
The order the Federal First Instance Court third Civil code court session gave to arrest the minister, Mr. Weredeweld, was held based on the request of obstruction the accused presented and was given a release for 15 days, the president of the court disclosed..
The president Mr. Kesalegn Berhe yesterday disclosed to ENA that the he obstructed the order the court passed to arrest Mr. Weredewold Wolde based on the civil code.
The president Mr. Desalegn pointed out that the minister told him that the First Instance court the third civil code court session's order was not proper and until he appeals to a higher court he asked him to obstruct the order and based on the request it was granted.
The president informed that the order to release the accused for 15 days was passed until his case is seen by a higher court and an optional order was passed.
If the order passed by the First Instance Court 3rd Civil Code Court session to arrest Mr. Werede Wolde for a month is found right after it is presented to the higher court through a appeal and being studied, the arrest would be enforced, but if it repeals all the orders and documents the court passed accusing the minister of being guilty would be repealed, the president disclosed..
The Federal First Instance court 3rd civil code court session passed on the order on the accused to stay arrested for a month for he didn't respect the court's order and was not available in the court session, Mr. Desalegn said.
From Addis Zemen June 1, 2001.
Ethiopian coffee is Producing Goal.
Last Sunday when the league's 10the week game was conducted, 13 goals were cast in to the net.
Out of these 10 of them were registered in the three games played at Addis Ababa Stadium.
Ethio-Coffee took precedence by scoring four goals on Adama Kenema.
In three games carried out of Addis Ababa only one goal was registered in each game.
This is an indication of the games' similarity.
In the three games conducted at Addis Ababa Stadium, Banks and EELPA's game ended in a draw while Ethiopia Coffee, returning from recess, scored four goals consecutively proving their superiority over their opponent team.
The result of Ethiopian Premier League 10the week, EELPA against Guna ended 1-1 draw, Bands Vs Awasa 2-2 draw, Ethio-coffee against Adama 4-0, Saint George Vs Trans 1-0, Medhin Insurance Vs Wenji sugar 1-0, Nyala Vs Muger 1-0, Meder Babur Vs Arba Minch Textile 1-0 completed the 10th week games. .
The next 11th week games would continue based on the time table, today at 4 o'clock in Addis Ababa Medhin Insurance Vs Muger, at 6 o' clock Saint George Vs Awasa Kenema, in Arbaminch, Arbaminch Textile Vs Adama Kenema, in Makele, Trans Ethiopia would play against Nyala.  .
The game continues tomorrow in Addis Ababa, Ethio-Coffee Vs Guna, EELPA Vs Banks, where as at wonji, Wonji sugar would take on Babur.
From Ethio Sport January 9, 2002
The European Parliament Passed a Decision on Ethiopian's matter
The European parliament recently disclosed in the decision it passed strictly condemned the illegal killing, horror, imprisonment and kidnapping carried out by Ethiopian government and military, violating what is stated in the constitution as well as in the amended fourth Lome Convention of which she accepted;
Although the parliament appreciated the ongoing democratic process and structural change, it expressed its worries on the measures taken following this, the pressure and persecution on established and organized professional and public associations, Ethiopian Free Press journalists, Ethiopian Teachers' Association and Ethiopian Workers' confederation leadership members, most of whom were obliged to go in to exile.
Moreover, the parliament mentioned that the killing of Mr. Assefa Maru who was executive committee member of Ethiopia Teachers' Association and EHRC was very horrifying and has passed a 7-point decision with regards human rights condition of Ethiopia.
The decision were,
1. "Strictly condemns Mr. Assefa Maur's killing,
2. Strictly condemns all violations of human rights carried out by government and defense force,
3. Calls for immediate half for acts committed by the country's higher officials on Ethiopian citizens violating their basic human rights illegally kidnapping people relating it to political affairs, persecution, arrest and rape.
4. Asks the Ethiopian higher officials to accept the rights to freely express one's ideas fully, and respect citizen's rights to organize in associations and freely express their ideas;
5. Reminds the Ethiopian government to urgently release all political prisoners who were arrested as prisoners of conscience and for the judiciary body then to give free and fair judgment, taking measures of amendment.
6. Asks the European council, commission and member countries to closely follow the treatment of human rights condition in Ethiopia and report if any kind of improvement is seen.
7. The president of the parliament gave this decision to the council, commission, and Ethiopian government, United Nations Secretary and United Nations Human Rights Higher Commission so as to make them aware of the condition and be able to execute the policy" it stated.
It's to be recalled that European Parliament took similar decision on Ethiopia on July 18, 1996 pertaining to Ethiopian human rights violation and asking for constraint of the time and again persecution carried out on citizens.
From Tobia September 25, 1997
Air Force is Ready to Defend the sovereignty of its Country and Constitution, the Commander -in-chief Disclsed
Ethiopian Air Force is going to carry out efficiently its duty of defending the sovereignty of the country and the constitution the commander-in-chief of the Air Force disclosed.
The commander in chief, Major General Alemshet Degefe, in a rank-promotion ceremony held at the Harar Field, at the head quarter commemorating May 28 holiday, disclosed that the air force would carry out efficiently its duties of defending the sovereignty of the country and the constitution, renewing its public mission.
The commander pointed out that the peaceful and democratic political process that is being strengthened in the country is the result of patriotic sacrifices of many truthful children, and from this point of view this year's May 28 victory holiday will have special meaning.
The election that was conducted for the 3rd time was conducted by the people using their democratic rights, and the army standing round the constitution is ready to carry out whatever is needed of it to assure the decision of the people and the ongoing democratic culture, the commander-in-chief reminded.
In order to make all membersof the airforce stable and calm lives and contiue respecting the nation-nationality and sovereignty of the country in a secured way, the commander-in-chief reminded that they should carry out their mission efficiently..
Among the commanders that were given the ranks from lieutenant to Captain, Major Yadeta Amente and Captain Ali Tegene gave suggestions that in order to defend the sovereignty of the country and to execute the constitution that people ratified with out any impediment, they would do their best and rose with determination with other members of the army.  .
Besides the ranks they got a promotion would be a moral-booster for them to defend the sovereignty of the country and constitution, and efficiently carry out the public mission that they have already started with loyalty and patriotism, they disclosed.
The ranks were given by Major General Alemshet Degfe; the air force higher officials were present during the ceremony.
During the ceremony prayer has been done for May 28 patriots.
From Addis Zemen June 3, 2005
Message of Fiamet.
You brought it, You Took it!
About two years ago there was one controversy.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) put Eritrean and Ethiopian Economic Delegates on a round table and started a discussion.
The basic idea of the discussion was to propose that they use the similar kind t economic policy, and if this is not possible, stop using the same currency and produce their own each of them.
At the time Eritrea used to follow macro-economic policy, while Ethiopia, micro-economic policy..
Both sides didn't want to change their economic policies; or didn't agree to change.
So, they were obliged to take the other option of IMF.
This second option was for both countries to stop using Ethiopian Birr ... they agreed to produce their own currency.
Based on this, they produced and distributed their own currency, in accordance with IMF's order.
After this money was printed, it brought about another problem.
In Eritrea, great economic doom was to come.
Tension reigned in the border of Tigray and Eritrea..
In the new Ethiopian currency, a map that included Bademe was seen.
The economic problem of Eritrea was transformed to war..
In a few months after the publication of the currency, because of IMF and Bademe, war broke out.
And now IMF gave warning for both countries..
Unless they stop the war it warned that it won't give any kind of aid.
One of the instigators of the war was IMF.
Today, it gave an order that says "stop the war".
Since these countries are economically colonized in the eve of 21st century, they are going to accept the order..
As to us, what if we call IMF, mockingly the modern colonizer ... "you brought it, you took it ...".
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
Police was Ordered to Present the Reason for the Decision to Release Siye Abrha on Bail was not Operationa.
Police was asked to present the reason as to why Mr. Siye Abrha who was under arrest being suspected of corruption crime couldn't be released on bail by the decision of the federal First Instance Court, the court session yesterday gave an optional appointment.
The Court Fund it appropriate to pass on an order after listening to the appeals presented to it from both by the court's decision that people who were suspected of corruption do not have bail rights and Siye Abrha's case which was before this proclamation put in place on June 9, 2001, and the appeal presented from the lawyers of the suspect which stated that it should be given strict command to the police to release the suspect.
Based on this, the court ordered the police to bring any of obstruction order given to it by any side who has legal judiciary authority on June 20, 2001 that stated the reason for not implementing the order of the court.
The court stated that the decision of the court to release the suspect on bail before the proclamation no. 239/93 that decreed by low came out operational, and without sending the order of obstruction to the court from the body of legal judiciary authority, hence, not implementing the order of the court so far, is undermining the order of the court, it stated.  .
The Federal High Court First Instance first criminal Bench court session receiving the submitted question of appeal from Investigation coordination Department on June 12, 2001, and the Mr. Siya Abraha's order of release on bail was order to be temporarily obstructed, the Federal Police Investigation Coordination department.
From Addis Zemen June 16, 200.
Are Children of the Poor not going to learn from now on?
Costly School fees have been contentious..
It's planned to have them paid up to 8 thousand Birr in a year.
The decision to have students paid in addition to the social and political problems the Addis Ababa University students have, and facilitation have been underway so as to make those capable pay and those who can't would pay borrowing from the bank.
In the meeting conducted towards the end of last academic year at Business and Economic Faculty Hall, it was told that the issue of payment has been one of the very contentious ones that has stayed for long and even passed on to the new year, University students who are close to students' congress told our newspaper..
Out of the reasons given by those who explained were "Based on the free economic policy the government won't interfere in any other sectors except defense and Administration: and in order to go forward independently the university has to design its income sources; and in other European and African countries education is on payment basis; and that it opens an opportunity for those who can pay but couldn't learn, and to elevate the quality of education."
The students who brought this to our office disclosed that the payment would be varied according to the type of the course, and for medicine law and engineering, approximately up to 8000 (eight thousand) Birr may be needed for payment, and also explained that various questions were raised on the side of the students;
Since one out of the different taxes government collects form the public is expended for education, the reason that "In order that the university will have its own income" is not appropriate, told the students.
Comparing Ethiopia to Europe and their African countries and trying to do all things in accordance to Europe and America is not appropriate, for Ethiopia whose development is the least among the countries who are less developed, and whose people's living condition is low and whose people are suffering from hunger, and the students expressed that who are not free until they pay their debts, and it restricts the ability to further the education of the future intellectuals, expressed their opposition against payment.  .
This issue of costly higher education fee "out of the general public I stood for the 85% farmers".
A government that claims to follow a rural focused policy" and in a country where education has not yet widened planning such kind of policy would rob the educational opportunity of the majority of the farmers and the poor children of most people, it has been widely discussed.
With regards to the payment decided by the government, the congress who was said to be elected by students, is preparing to call a meeting and discuss with the general students community in the coming year 1998, the majority of students in order to express their opposition through open demonstration the students asked the congress to facilitate this, but the administration of the university is thinking of suppressing this activity, these students who reported the news disclosed..
Especially, the sidist Kilo campus has been the source of students' protest continually for the past and present governments and if pubic demonstration is conducted against the payment, the university administration is terrifying and threatening that the government is going to charge it, once and for all, to a research center, and the coordinators an supporters of the protest would be selected and only those who aren't would be assigned in the different regional institutions and learn, the students also mentioned..
These students who disclosed to our press department said that suppression and injustice, in the university has become increasing that those who are entrusted with authority are conducting atrocious embezzlement..
The embezzlement is conducted under the cover of food supply and they insisted that investigation should be conducted with those university authorities who are involved in this corruption..
The embezzlement has been going on in purchasing beet cheaply from debrezeit town from oxen that are slaughtered mainly for the purpose of research in veterinary science, rather than from the Abbattoir House but fraud it with regular purchase register; in purchasing expired and spoiled bread flour in cheep price but presenting a forged receipt for expensive price, in reducing some amount of fuel out of the fuel carriage, which is bought with lots of money for the purpose of the university vehicles, and selling it for an exchange of goods, not from those who win bids but form those individuals, whom the university purchaser and dean prefer..
The butter which has been bought with costly price was spoiled and proved to be inedible and was exposed, while the fuel that was reduced by these people from the fuel carriage was caught red handed just before it was about to go out of the campus, the informers pointed out..
While the individual who was arrested due to embezzlement was released in two months time an assigned in another work post is surprising, individuals who were suspected of embezzlement were relieved, and it was recently given press statement on the radio as if the theft was carried out by other individuals.
Based on the informers who gave general comment regarding the situations in the university campuses, it was possible to understand that for the suppression of students' grievance, in addition to the "policemen" which were seem wriggled about, students of one specific region were armed and are making strict follow up and control..
These "students" who were assigned in the university, not with their results, but with their contribution, have special "alliance" and operate in the campus during the vacation, it was disclosed..
When they need to discuss and in form monthly meetings and place, they put on paper on the notice boards entitled "Melketa" (which literally means observation) to make a call, and every year similar call is made to new students who come form regions, and orientation is given, according to the informants, teachers whose origin is from this region gather these students during their leisure time and given them addition lesson of economics and mathematics, they added.   .
These "students" and armed individuals who were made to form "alliance" are the ones who expose students following their activities, and while identity cards were given for members of students' congress so as "to move around without any difficulty" and do their jobs, these "students" were also given identity cards, it was understood from the informers..
Among the questions raised by the students, solution should be sought for students who came back after with drawing for a year due to sickness, for they are devoid of having food and accommodation services, and this working procedure created a lot of problem for students who are poor and that come form remote areas; the working procedure that make students disqualify without seeing their problems and reasons, for a year just because the time for registration has passed by a few hours or one day should be avoided, the payments students pay for appealing to investigate when wrong results are given to them should be left out; assigning students who have enough results without their interest and inclinations should stop; the university's administrative and academic working procedure should have clarity and stop talking about receiving this and that number of students each year just to draw donors of education, while half of the students are made to sleep on the cement floor and grass-mat, sending out half of them in the middle of the academic year deceiving mechanism of income – generation should stop; these are only few of the questions, the informers explained to our press office..
While the questions of university students problems and questions are then ones mentioned, the newly established students' congress in order to get recognition in foreign universities, was organizing students in tribes, strengthening EPRDF's structure in the university, and for this it was helping students to be members of their regional development associations, it was understood from the informers..
The informers disclosed that the students' congress was hand and gloves with the university administration while it's in contradiction with the student community, and the attempt to organize students in race was intended to wipe a pay the national feeling of Ethiopianness, they asked 67,000 Birr budget so as to strengthen the university administration's influence on students council and to build up the relationship it created with the administration..
It has been more than three months since the Tobia magazine put forward questions to the president's office with regards to payment of higher education and the general situation viewed in the university, "structural changes are being made and therefore, wait for us" was the response we got up to one.
From Tobia August 28, 1997
"The measure taken ... is Right, Proper and Timely" Prime Minister Meles
In the interview he gave to the special edition of Abiyotawi Democracy magazine which was published for the occasion of tenth anniversary of EPRDF, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi explained that since the measure which is being taken is in accordance with the law and order, it is right, proper and timely.
Does the government have some problems in maintaining peace and stability due to the recent division, opposition of Addis Ababa University students, the arrested people in relation to hooligans' looting and the death of Mr. Kinfe?
In a response to this question, he said the fact that these events occurred one after the others can't be reasons for the government's inability to maintain peace and stability..
With regards to the students' case, the prime minister stated that on the one hand there may be questions that should be raised and are proper but he believed that it would be difficult for him to say that most to the questions couldn't have been entertained by the administration of the university..
However, there was a situation where they attempted to use the students' activity for other purpose and since the majority of the students taking their stand, couldn't identify those who were used as instruments for the opposition, and since this situation was that they kind of blindly follow it made the problem complicated, this I could see he said.    .
"Some forces that were behind the students, not as seeking remedy for the queries but at the back of the questions as a camouflage to create confusion and have the dream and nightmare of pushing EPRDF, assuming it's crumbling and breaking up, and that it won't pass this May, so let's have a coup de tat," he explained..
With regard to the hooligans it was necessary to take strong measure previously, but since this was delayed, he believed, it contributed for the complexity of the problems and the problem has been considered in such a way as to give it lasting solution, and hence, the peace and stability of the city has become better then before, the prime minister Meles, explained..
Answering to the issue regarding the death of Mr. Kinfe Gebre Medhin, he said "The sacrificial death of Kinfe at this time indicates not that the regime couldn't maintain peace and security but, mostly cautionary measures that should be taken through agreement were not taken, he said.
In the future, through learning from each task a situation would be created to do a better job and, in general, the government has the capability and preparedness to assuredly keep the country's peace and stability.
Is EPRDF taking measures against oppositions based on the looting and riot?
With regards to the measures taken against professor Mesfin and others that made the case to be looked at suspiciously the prime minister responded, "The main thing is opposition organizations cannot live by being opportunist," he said.
Keeping democratic order means including punishing criminals and having them punished according to the country's law and order, and properly keeping the rights of non-criminal, while still put to justice one who's criminal, he pointed out.
Some of these people assumed and have the feeling that "if we are put behind bars, the whole world would shut, no body would touch us, and nobody asks if we are violating the law" he explained..
Prime minister Meles who disclosed that oppositions from now on should identify the battle field and the zones where bombs are planted and in accord with the law and regulation they could operate as they wish, so since the measure was taken in accord with the country's law and order, it was right, proper, and timely, he said.
From Addis Zemen May 25, 2001         .
The Library of the Clergy has been Neglected
A the clergy which has thousands of ancient books as it is the first and oldest institution, its worthy ancient books at the moment, are found to be at risk being damaged by rain and dust, the news that reached us from the clergy pointed out.
The condition of the library is so desperate that it's no better than a store and especially in the rainy season the books are found in a dilapidated leaking house, and the workers put newspapers on them in an effort to protect them from the rain, it was understood form the explanation.
These books which are expensive ancient relics and which are the properties of the church are supposed to have good shelves and be placed honorably and with care, but are now negligently thrown, covered with dust and showered with rain, it was disclosed.
Since wise and learned people who read and make research on these books were not given place in the clergy, many professionals in the clergy are saddened.
At this time, departments like preaching Gospel department, and educational department that are key to the widening of the church's doctrinal faith are not given focus, and so they don't have even a vehicle (a car) they are going for evangelical services, it was said.
The teachers had to wait for a bus even while going to evangelical services but most of the vehicles are all used only to accompany the patriarch, some observers disclosed..
The activities done in the clergy are modern and different kinds of working procedure which are saddening, said the observers; while yesterday the salaries that were not paid, the vehicles that were not given to the intellectuals, professionals of the clergy, those who grew up in the church and have given up their entire life to spiritual service, are today offered to those who came recently being called from their resident areas but who are not known by the church and serve them for their entertainments, they disclosed..
The salaries of the scholars of the church are low, they are also forbidden to take vehicles when they go out for evangelical services, and it was disclosed.
The issue of the library of the clergy that is without a ceiling as well as a good quality shelf for its valuable ancient books is critical, commentators disclosed..
It needs someone to take care of it, they said..
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
In Two Colleges and Alemaya University Dispersion was Don.
The Kotebe Teachers' College, Bahir Dar Teachers' college and the Alemaya Agricultural College which have for several years shown rapid progress with not apparent reason, their faculties and departments were obliged to stop and close the degree programs, become weakened as a result;.
In a report that reached us the agricultural economics, agricultural engineering and Forestry departments which are the backbones of Alemaya Agricultural University were decided to be closed as of 1998.
As the reason for the closure was not official, the fare of the lecturers who used to teach in those departments and faculties was also unknown..
Instead of the closed departments it was decided to start secondary teachers and Health officers training, the sources that reported to us disclosed.
the Alemaya Agricultural University which is the only agricultural university in Africa which operates with a lot of foreign aid, and its research center which was in Debrezeit town was given to the formerly known as Agricultural Research Institute and now Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization, which shows that it is intended to totally devastate the university, say educational professionals, the animal science, which has been playing a great role in producing efficient professionals, is also encountering several obstacles, they said..
In a country where millions of tons of fertile soil are wasted annually, where the use of dam has not passed more than fifty percent, where one-third of the production yield is wasted only during harvest collection, closing the agricultural engineering department which was in Alemaya Agricultural University and stop producing professionals in this field is deliberately aimed at hurting the country, they criticized. .
The decision to close the agricultural economics department which graduated 1194 professionals in bachelor degree and 38 in master's degree in the last 35 years, has shocked many..
Although the Alemaya University and the Netherlands' Larensten Agricultural College in a study they conducted jointly in the 5 years between 1996 and 2000 alone 4 PH.D level, 117 master's level and 3590 bachelor and agricultural economists are needed by the country, the action of clothing this department has made many sorrowful.
The protection of Arid Zones, which was a department already to be included in Alemaya University, have included it in to Mekele University, for when they asked different kinds of aid, Alemaya usually takes it for its own, and so some said they wanted to weaken the University, as a result..
The Alemaya University was established before 40 years and by now it has a staff of 28 doctors, 104 masters level and 21 bachelors level professional.
With related news from Bahir Dar, the Bahir Dar Teachers' is the only one found in Kenya and Ethiopia below Sahara desert which give adult education; it's forced to stop giving educational programs as from the beginning of 1997 onwards, the fate of experts and teachers of each department is not known and nothing is officially stated.
The Bahir Dar Teacher's college which gets different aid, as a result of its adult education department, and this department has contributed and played greet role in producing citizens who are trained in various skills and creating their own jobs, solving social problems.
the sources which sent this report added that even though the college was to begin degree program deciding to cancel its diploma programs fully and adult Education program would decrease its standard.
Closing this department would not only be harmful to the country, but also would make loosen the foreign aid that used to come as a result of it..
The area that was thought to widen the college and, hence, fenced has now started to be given to investors, which would weaken the college, sources from the area disclosed.
In the mean time, the Kotebe Teachers' Education college which has now 28 years of age since its establishment, has been showing rapid progress in our country, and finished its preparation to graduate trainers in Master's degree, it is now obliged to discontinue its first degree /bachelor degree/ program, its representation would be for Region 14 Administration, interior sources disclosed to us..
The Kotebe Teachers college has not only been limited to graduate teachers in bachelor of education but prepares training, sets formats and produces graduate teachers to the colleges which have been formed recently in the regions: Dilla, Wendo Genet, Nazareth, Technique College, Makele, Bahir Dar and others.
The institute used to graduate teachers in degree programs with Mathematics, History, Geography, English language and Literature as well as Ethiopian languages and Literature, in general with five departments including Health and physical Education, sources of the report disclosed..
For the above departments, preparations of material, building, human resources were completed by the college, sources disclosed.
The Kotebe Teachers Education College not only graduated more than five times in degree programs that had already been started previously, but also with the relations it has with an institute in Germany named Ho Ha Ho and the Homerton which is under British Cambridge University, sends trainers in scholarship with various professions to learn for Master's and PH.D degrees, and it was disclosed that there are some who are under their draining..
The college has more than 20 assistant professors and teachers with various years of experience, it was known..
Established in 1970 under Addis Ababa University, strengthened during the process of work and become independent, after which the teachers who graduated became fruitful and were praised, several professionals witnessed.         .
In relation to this one whose name need to remain anonymous worker of ministry of Education, in the letter he sent through our address suggested that the Kotebe Teachers Education is one of the first institute that covers 69% teachers' need of our country.
Last September 1997 when the college received degree students and continued its teaching process, the minister of education questioned "Why did you receive students while you're told it's to be closed?.
And without any study and meeting conducted and minutes held in the ministry, the program was discontinued just because she ordered "since it's to be closed, don't receive students", stated the report we have.
The injustice done to this college which fulfills very modern language and science laboratory and other necessary pre-conditions, and whose contributions to the country is so great, when compared to the "Ethiopian civil service college" and the two college and one university which were opened in Tigray, that were intended to train servants of the regime which is given great care and focus, the formers condition is very regrettable and history won't forgive such injustice, the reporter explained, and one of the reasons given for taking this measure was "Two institutions which conduct similar degree programs in one region (region 14) are not necessary." .
From Tobia September 18, 1997
If any Ethiopian chooses another citizenship, it is disclosed that he/she would immediately loses his Ethiopian citizenship..
Ethiopian Deputy Police commissioner Major Alemseged Gebre Amlak in the interview he gave to the Vice of America on September 2 responded that according to the legislation passed on July 1930 with regards to citizenship on the day on Ethiopian took another citizenship, he/she immediately loses his/her Ethiopian citizenship.
The Major gave this resopnse to the question wondering whether most of the Eritreans who were evicted from Ethiopia have lived in Ethiopia for many years and are Ethiopians.
So why were they evicted, was the question of the radio reporter..
Responding as to why they were evicted, they said they were found operative forming clandestine political party and considered dangerous, evidence was also found that proved so, and their eviction was announced to the people..
Among the evicted ones, it was disclosed that there were people including priests..
Reasoning out their eviction, they assured that all of them were organized in groups under EPLF's underground organization, people's front for Democracy and Justice, were operating in various aspects, that is, in gathering information and propaganda work, and because this was proved they were evicted, they explained..
Although the Eritrean government is overestimating the figure in the media, the right number of evicted Eritreans, were only 5874 major Alemseged assured..
From Fiameta September 6, 1998
At least Let's honor the Current Legislatur.
As we are people of information anything said about information will concern us.
We followed last week's celebration of "Information Day" and what was said commemorating the date just like any other listener and reader, from outside.
Among the festivities presented to make the date colorful, was the symposium that evaluated the different looks of mass media.
But ideas representing the free press haven't been heard.
Even when they were heard, they were the ideas of few participant individuals.
This was because, they didn't want the presence of families of free press.
The "Information Day" which was said to have been organized integratively by Walta Information Center, Television Organization and Ethiopian science and Technology Commission, Opposition Organizations (at least which are said to be legally registered) and even the free press to which the date directly refers have been put aside, which Vividly points out whose ideas are boldly listened to and whose authority is wanted to be seen on the fore.
The drum that was beaten as "Free idea, Free Press, Free economy, Free election, Free Judicature," for democratic order has been clearly seen that it's used for the consumption of foreign propaganda so as to make sue the money from the International monetary Fund (IMF) and the world Bank comes.
What is amazing and sorrowful is to see the organization which claims to stand for the development of the country's science and technology, it victimized, otherwise, we know Walta Information Center and Television Organization.
It is not expected from the EPRDF's propaganda source, "Walta Information Center", which struggles to weaken the Ethiopian News Agency that has been serving the country for over fifty years, and is official News Source of the country, to have positive image for the free press..
Forum-84 which was established for the purpose of the new bureaucratic service, including the chairman by full of defectees of EPRP who were in prison and in the Dergue bureaucracy, we are not naïve to expect that it would be any different from the present Television organization.
At the time the "Information week" was commemorated, it's known that 18 free press journalists are in prison.
Nothing was said about them.
The International Journalist organization (            ) in the statement it released in 1997, that is, this year, categorized Prime Minister Meles Zenawi as one of the ten press enemies of the world.
This reality was not disclosed to the people who have been said so many things about them.  .
The ideas of political opposition organizations were made not to be entertained on the government mass media.
But for the sake of propaganda consumption, legislatures for working procedure of government mass media have passed on.
Next to the government media, the ruling party is trying its best to establish the monopoly of ideas by forming its own propaganda order calling them, Walta Information, Radio Fana, Abiyotawi Democracy, Efoyata, etc.
On the other hand, it opened a wide propaganda campaign on the free press.
All these problems were not mentioned on that date, "Information Day", which was praised a lot.
But in that forum, individuals who have been meddling all the way up to now, were observed to be seem critical, where we appreciated their ability to see the direction where the political wind blew.
If we get the opportunity our big question would have been, "the ruling party and the authoritative government, at least let them honor the legislature they passed on!" this was our question.
The Ethiopian Federal Democratic Republic Government in its Article 29 decreed that every individual has the right to hold on any attitude he believes in.
Nonetheless, individuals are chased by being called OLF, AAPO, and EPRP.
We think that being an OLF, AAPO or EPRP means holding to one political outlook.
We can't see why it has become a reason for being taking to custody or killed.
Leave alone other things, free press journalists are made to be arrested or accused for the ideas they put on their newspapers and magazines.
But according to the constitution and press low the free press has the right to get information.
But the door that takes to the information is sealed.
In the rights to hold and express ideas freely mentioned under the constitution, article 29 sub-article 6 "the sanction on the right to get ideas and information could be operational only by laws that are asked on the products of attitude can not be obstructed.
"A clause that says like that is written.
The free press journalists, however, are even now are being arrested and accused, by the opinions they wrote (even in opinion articles), of "troubling the ideas of people".
When government realizes that there are problems in any life sectors it passes on problem-solving legislatures.
We know that there are several problems around press that do not help the development of press.
Yet, if not passing on legislature and solving the problem, the previously decreed legislatures which are operational should be honored.
Leaving alone what is being done in other countries like subsidizing and reducing tax for developing press which may be done only for friends, we say let the pressure and arrest stop..
From Tobia November 20, 1997
EPLF Arrested Thousands of Ethiopians in Commemoration of its Freedom
In commemoration of its 10th Freedom anniversary, EPLF put thousands of Ethiopians in its prison camps, the Ethiopian embassy in Eritrea disclosed..
The embassy disclosed yesterday including four Ethiopian embassy workers, many Ethiopians were taken from their residences and from the road and are now behind bars indifferent police stations, kebele offices and prison camps..
EPLF has continued strengthening its unjust acts as from May 22, 2001 and put them into what's called AdiAbeto camp, the embassy further disclosed.
From Addis Zemen May 25, 2001.
Congregation Stopped Partaking Holy Communion with the Patriarch
The patriarch led the mall on the annual commemoration day, January 30, 1998, at St. Urael Church but the congregation returned /home/ refusing to Partake Holy Communion with the patriarch, it was reported.
The reporter who was present in the occasion, quoting some eyewitnesses disclosed that, except children who were baptized and few people, those congregations who were looking forward to the commemoration date to partake Holy Communion, starting from the eve of the holiday, went away without it when they know the patriarch was leading the mass and Holy Communion.  .
Leave alone on its annual commemoration date, St. Urael is a church where Christian congregations fill up not only the premise in an ordinary day service, but also outside the compound..
The people who came to the church on January 30, 1998 was simply limittless.
Out of all these Christian congregation who came to take part in the holiday, the eye witnesses said the saw only limited number of people together with the children waiting to partake Holy communion, and not as expected as many people, and even many of whom went out of the church..
There were Christian members who expressed that they stopped attending masses in the presence of the patriarch, let alone partake the Holy Communion with him..
But many have been surprised by the unexpected new scene in St. Urael church.
It is just like a strike, they said with admiration..
The church where many people lined up to partake Holy Communion in an ordinary day church-service we who know what happened were humiliated.
Said the eye witnesses..
In the meantime the beer and fatty-meat gifts started sprouting again, internal sources disclosed.
In order to facilitate this program, the Secretary of the parish withdrew the prayer procession and seen wandering at Arat Kilo liquor distributors, pertinent sources revealed.
To be found in liquor house in the morning especially wearing the black attire from head to bottom like a patriarch is disrespect to our church, they thought..
We were ashamed to find him by a pick-up vehicle around the grocery area,
Even on a big holiday, they said.
pertinent sources.
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
The Teacher was Suspended from Work and Salary Under the Pretext of Politics.
The Teacher of the book at Gola St. Michael Church Tibebu Ayalew, was suspended from work and salary, it was reported.
Shameful and scandalous things are occasionally exhibited around church leaders..
The cause of Teacher Tibebu Ayalew's suspense from job and salary revolves around this issue, internal sources are saying.
It has been months since the disagreement between the body who enacted the suspension and the suspended individual was exposed; the report that indicated the ups and downs the teacher underwent even before the suspension suggested that after a long and series of misunderstandings, the teacher was suspended from both salary and work, under Como house of politics, the report that reached us disclosed.  .
The teacher of the Book was told that at first since he had not been presenting his job without sufficient reason, his December salary was suspended, but within a short time, his salary was released, yet a last warning was given stating that he should be working at any position the parish administrator usher deacon assigns earlier, it was possible to understand from the report..
It was also disclosed, however, higher bodies overruled the unjust bureaucracy the parish administrator exhibited.
Nevertheless, the conclusion for the suspension of the teacher from his work and salary was that he made a political speech..
Observers and audiences criticized the political reason attributed to the suspension; they were also obliged to contemptuously see the administrator who passed the suspension..
They said it's not expected from a person who claims to be a priest to throw away a teacher with pretext of politics who was in disagreement with..
With regards to the clashes between Eritrean and Ethiopian government, he was said to "engage in a speech that provokes people in to people, people in to government, congregations into the church, the church into the church, the church into the gov't..
Hence, his May, 1998 salary was suspended, and from June on wards he was suspended from job and salary; he has still been under restraint, and now appealing to higher bodies for justice, the related news stated..
Since there was a long-time discord between the parish administrator and the teacher of the Book, it would be very difficult to believe that the teacher was suspended due to his political speech, which left us with the option that the decision that was taken against the teacher may rather have emanated from their previous disagreement..
The fact that indicate it's related to personal vengeance was the act of assigning a reputed teacher of the Book to a lay-person's position, disregarding the command of the higher body (Leader of District Parish congregation Secretariat) who had passed the order based on a study which shows their own stand, observers underscored..
At a time where many such teachers are looked forward to, it would be an unfavorable comment from the officials, an act of authoritarian suspension, which harms the church, they also warned..
Any way, the teacher of the Book was suspended from work under the pretext of politics. .
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
Statement Given from Ethiopian Federal Democratic Governmen.
Since recently the instability that lived quite long and the disruption of learning-teaching process occurred, government has traveled a long distance to listen to the students' request and respond to those proper ones, it was disclosed in mass Medias.
Having listened in detail to the questions students forwarded, a discussion was held between the Ministry of Education and Student representatives in order to identify the proper and improper questions and agree on their remedies.
In the discussion held between government and the students, government accepted questions which it believed were proper..
The government proposed remedial notions that it believed to solve the problems raised around the administration and, more or less, agreement was reached on all issues.
At that moment the question that had not been resolved and didn't reach agreement with the students was the urgent pulling out of the security police of the University, and even for this, it was not without remedial suggestions, although the students were observed pushing hard without displaying patience.
While government proposed remedial suggestions that answered students questions and indeed that would satisfy students who wanted to scrape their administration problems, this remedy, however, could not be accepted by political organizations that held their own political agenda behind the students, and for few students who marched off determinedly.
These political organizations and some students who were members of them considered the temporary problem that was created in EPRDF as lasting weakness, planned chaos and lawlessness to rule over..
Therefore, the result was, through few students and mainly through the leadership of the city's hooligans, they attempted to carry out the herd activity and widen unrest in Addis Ababa city..
They considered that government doesn't have the diligence and preparedness to take legal measures and involved in activities of disturbing the peace of the people.
The Ethiopian Federal Democratic Government has never retreated from entertaining any proper question that is presented legally.
And even after this it would never fail short of its effort to entertain legal and proper questions.
However the government wouldn't accept any attempt to benefit out of chaos, in a misunderstanding of situations, with a baseless hope of assuming that EPRDF is weakened, and instigating disturbance and violence.
Since the prior task of any government is to maintain peace and stability, it won't pass with negligence the creation of disturbance by political organizations or some students who follow their suit and the violence instigated by especially city hooligans..
Due to this, Federal (government) decided to take strong and lasting measure on groups who disturb people's peace and security and incur damage on people's and government's property.
Based on this, the Federal Police is ordered to take all the necessary measures on illegal individuals who disturb people's peace and security.
The Federal Democratic Government strictly warns that students who are found at any edge of the country, especially higher education students, apart from presenting their questions, if they have some, in a legal and orderly fashion, if they try to incur damage on people's and government's property by them selves or in collaboration with other illegal bodies, the responsibility is theirs and theirs only.
In the mean time government warns political or so called human-rights organizations who operate to instigate chaos, being defeated by student's question, to be reserved from such acts..
Ethiopian Federal Democratic Governmen.
April 18, 2001
From Addis Zemen April 19, 2001.
The New Generation Leaders Who Were Looked Forward to Change Africa are Said to Lose Track
The deterioration of the successful relationship that never seemed to be shaken between Ethiopia and Eritrea has been shadowed by the intervention of World Soccer Cup that was looked forward to by many people around the world.
After the game resumed, however, we started wondering what Satan interfered between AddisAbaba and Asmara, what exactly was the wrong thing that happened?  .
For the last recent years, the two rations' leaders drew many news agencies and medias, as many adjectives of praise were attached to them: clever, open, organized, determined, proud, and on the whole, they were elevated as young.
Eritrean President, Isayas Afeworki and Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi were regarded among the new generation progressive African leaders.
The new-generation African leaders include Uganda's Yuweri Musevini and Ruwandan Paul Kagame.
People considered the leader of Democratic Congo , Lore Kavila, too, in this category of leaders.
Nevertheless, since he now couldn't go along with his partners in Kampala and Kigali, he was said to be dismissed from the group..
These new leaders have no doubt drawn the attention of other African peoples out of their respective land.
Whenever Yuweri Muserine speaks before Kenyan people they used to shower him with admiration.
Last year President Moi had not always been at ease when Congo's Kabila was mentioned due to the clashes between the change seeking rebels and government police.
In the national press, they wrote articles, in comparison, what happened to the ex-dictatorial leader of Zaire, Mobutu se se seko may happen to Moi if he continued on his stand and do not amend the constitution.
Besides, some opposition party leaders coined him a new name, Moibutu.
Just because Moi was very angry at the press, for they compared him with a dictator, he denied the criticism openly when he made a speech to the public..
Among those who put great faith on the new generation African leaders, were leaders of United States of American and South Africa.
These governments have widely talked about the resurrection of Africa through these leaders.
Although genuine political observers were worried by the fact that people's hearts were melted through these talks, i.e. these leaders becoming Africa's saviors, the shocking incident for many people was the war that broke between Eritrea and Ethiopia..
Evaluating it now, there is no doubt that thee new-generation African leaders have transformed the former ways of coming to power and handling issues in the leadership.
President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela in a recent conference of African leaders in Burkina Faso, questioned the significance of the legislation of Organization of African Unity that forbids one country not to interfere in another's internal affairs.  .
Governments  are expending the highest budget from their budgets in order to fight back internal rebels.
On the other hand, the clash between Asmara and Addis Ababa presented an Achilles heel for critics of new leaders to say that they are very quick to act militarily for political problems.
I my self was a big supporter of Musevini, but when I heard him repeatedly saying he's going to wipe away Joseph Konin and Lord Resistance Army, I lost my hope in him.
The recently appointed Kenyan government officials, especially those of them who have been for the last 3 years, said that President Moi moved a lot better democratically than the new leaders.
However, Moi has been in a state of high pressure, especially, from the donor group.
Presently, Kenyan political pundits and the civil society leaders are found in a stage that leads to a process of forming democratic constitution.
Even though confusion ad disloyalty rules over the practical process, we are moving, using the true Kenyan figure of speech, towards the solution.
We don't hear our people talking about going to the bush, rather is discussing about the means and ways to rule over democracy.
Commentator: John Giton.
Director of African Strategic Research Institute .
From Fiameta July 10, 1998
The Memory of "Roasted-Bean" Student
The orbit of the countryside student's memory draws even that of the city ones astonishing like a bolt from the blue transporting it to the place where it belongs.
The life of countryside means more than anything for the roasted-bean student.
The translation for the book, the lesson for the church song, the skill for poetry, localities like Dima Debrework...Axum Debre Abay...Zur Amba Bethleham Wadla...Chegodi Lij Anbera...Gunj Washera...all these are the learning and graduating places for the roasted-bin student; and these universities of roasted-bean student are found in the country..
While attending his classes, the roasted-bean student had so many memories, out of which we present the following for today..
The "student" never always lines mocking at people with his Amharic poetry..
Sometimes he, too in his turn, would be taunted at by his teachers.
He is a student who came from around Washera have been learning "usage of letters" and poetry of Washera from master Gedlu to learn the poetry of Wadla..
He was skillful.
But what good does this bring? He has a habit of theft..
He picks up whatever he gets (on his way).
Do you know how many students "leather grain bag" he ransacked, he might not he identified.
A lot! He's surprisingly strange..
He had "looted" from his earlier school, too.
What's surprising was his had already heard about it.
So that's enough.
His wise master Yared decided that he should leave before he infected the school.
Cause he was sick and fired of his theft..
He had him called and said to him "My Berhan , Go the your family, the education you got is sufficient...after all... with a diplomatic language."
He responded, "...Ok, but let me stay for a little while...until I finish what I started and learn grammar usage, but the master said, "No, No, what you learned...suffices you...and as I heard from your friends, you used to be good at it, in Washera, too".
Hey, you have finished all of it here...so go to your place.
And he had him take his departure.
He, too, understood.
On the morrow he packed off..
But such student of bad character is rare to find. .
Well, the roasted-bean student's goal is to widely learn the word of God..
And the majority of the students are dedicated to their cause..
In order to learn the gist of the word of God as it is taught in various localities, he raves from on place to another. .
So are many who remain at where they went..
While some of them give service in the skill they've graduated teaching the word of God to many, others travel to "remote end of the country", got married and live there, getting rich or poor without seeing back to his birth place..
There are even some who through others, turns as bad as can be even while he's at school.
Yes, the one who sees this and the futility of the world leaves school "run away" and would be shattered in a monastery..
While for others their parents expect to "see them reach some place and be somebody" they, contrary to their expectation, would suddenly come home turned monk, having his cap on his head.
Some of the cases are heart-breaking.
It's depressing..
He'd be caught by a certain kind of illness or suffer from contagious disease, and "perish" in a foreign land.
The mother who heard here son's death after a number of years in a fire accident while he was in his class, yelled in regret "I sent him to Washera to have him learned I heard he became sharp and fired" expressing metaphorically..
Except very few, it is customary for the majority of students not to tell where they came from and their names, in good times, let alone when they're ill..
While his name at home was "Biyazin Destaw Azmeraw ...charges his name to "Ezra Sutel Elias ..." when he is enrolled in school.
Worst of all, the mischievous student makes his name complicated when one ask him "what's your name?.
He'd say "Telgel Telfelsor".
When they mischievous student sees especially the innocent country side peasant found it difficult to pronounce the name, would laugh uproariously..
Even though the student laughed at times with certain occasions, deep down his heat he has sour grievance..
When he sometimes had nothing to eat, or a dog chased him from the house he stopped by to beg for food, he desperately longs for his home which is full of everything; his heroic father, his sympathetic sister and his mother who often cries her heart out for him it is then that he sits down lost in thought, "I wish my mother saw, I wish my sister saw when a dog chased me for a slice of breads"..
Humming away to him in tears..
Yet, when this student sometimes wants to beg for a slice of bread, we saw him doing funny things..
Was he teaching wisdom of switching a time of difficulty to laughter and systematically pass it?
Who knows? .
... Let's add for you another theater, in the country side, "come, and going round" means return after short time..
Or come later.
Just as we say "Go around and come".
One day the student went out begging, and he reached just as the griddle, disc of day in which bread is made was put on the fire, and the disc was not heated enough..
He begged, standing in front of the door.
The woman looking at him said, "Hey, student, the disc hasn't yet heated" she said to him.
The student responded "But you're heated and you can listen to my question.
The woman, who was wise in the language, and understood his mischievous ness, responded shortly by saying "OK, student, until I bake one or two bread go around and come".
The student didn't go any where, but he turned around his face and entered the house facing his back. .
He didn't realize the presence of her husband..
"What do you want?" shouted the husband at him.
"Your princess told me to turned round and enter..
The student replied.
But the student's humor didn't work out that day.
He didn't meet an innocent laughing farmer..
A trouble has come..
The farmer hit the student severely.    .
One day this farmer and the student suddenly met in a big wedding..
The student harbored the grudge against him..
But the farmer didn't take the student in to account..
He forgot it.  .
What angered the student most was this..
His belittling him..
Leave alone the others..
The student was not even considered an enemy...the feast of dining and wining went on at about evening, all become drunk,
Dancing and war chant had started.
When one took his seat the other stood to dance.
When one sang uproariously the other war chart.  .
All showed his bravery by displaying patriotism through war chants..
Everybody boasts war chant to show one's patriotism. .
The student had to display patriotism today.
He thought.
At least he had to show off his "brevity" through chants.
But then ... the farmer is a strong man.
What if he prodded him by provoking?
He was frightened.
He was worried.
When the student repeatedly said to himself "whatever comes" and sipped the local beer, he became drunk..
His small heart which was filled with fear suddenly enflamed with anger and regret, the student..
All of a sudden... , he said "I the hero, servent of the master," and stood up. .
People started listening to him attentively. .
Touching his upper garment made of tanned sheep skin with his stick he went to the crowds and got in the midst of them, starting his war chant.
"I the hero" said the student.
"Hurray! I the student, and hero, yes, a hero
Whose armor the poem, his whip the hymn book.
The gateway of the church, his den
The leather bag, his shield, the book of psalms its necklac.
Prayer his bulle.
Never surrenders in desperatio.
When a priest is troubled, people yell
Loots remain of food one and all
Who were there on the day of the memorial feast for the dead?
People like melkamu, Mamaru
Servant of the master who wears the hymn book
Never fears death, the student..
He said, and sat down.
It's all over; he said it all and got relieved..
But the audience up roared over him..
From Addis Zemen August 27, 1997.
The Border Issue would have decision on February 28
In order to give finality to the border controversy between EPRDF and Eritrean government the international tribunal that was seeing the case is expected to pass on a resolution in the coming February 28/2002.
In a related development, the security council of the United Nations ordered the two countries to accept unconditionally the resolution passed.
In its regular session on January 15, 2002, the Security Council, it was also possible to know that the Security Council assigned delegates that would execute the resolution of the international tribunal.
This team which was led by the Norwegian born ambassador Ali Peter Kolbay is said to make the EPRF and EPLF government give it their last assurance for accepting the resolution passed on by the International Court a week before the latter makes it officials, that is on February 21, 2002.
The resolution which this International Tribunal Passes on not only would be the last and necessarily going to be implemented but also the international community would give it full support, the written message that was read in the meeting of the Security Council disclosed.  .
After the border is demarcated on the map, by he international commission, the hammering of the "peg" on to the actual ground marking the positions would follow, it was pointed out.
However, as there are many buried explosives around the border, there's a fear from the outset that these would elongate the actual border demarcation activities, which was said to have been raised on the council's meeting..
From Tomar January 22, 2002
The Patriarch's Friends were overjoyed As a result of the Ban of Merha Tewahedo Newspaper!
The news paper that is published by the name "Merha Tewahedo" and had legal permission from Ministry of Trade and used to come out once in two weeks (on Friday) was banned in an order given from the Federal First Instance Court, and those who were patriarch's combatants and who didn't like the tabloid were overjoyed, internal sources disclosed to us..
The sides who argue that when Merha Tewahedo newspaper was first established it was officially disclosed that if anyone who's against the name could put the case to the court but none didn't appear then, so it would be inappropriate to ban the newspaper just by the clergy's vow, without the appearance of the owner in the court.
Appearing in court the owner of the tabloid asked the court to lift the ban, but he was told that the case wouldn't be seen except on the appointment date given to the clergy on March 24 1998, the court explained..
In this regard, lawyers claimed that the ban was not proper.
The real cause for the ban of the tabloid was believed to be mysterious and the patriarch was quoted as saying what the problem to ban this tabloid is? Is it implementer who was missing or? And he's said to have some respite due to the ban, internal sources explained..
The court wrote directly to the ministry of Trade and disclosed to Region 14 Police Commission and, in return, the ministry of Trade made it clear to Merha Tewahedo Organization, the letter was thought to have appealed to higher court, they underscored..
The cause for the tabloid to be hated among the patriarch and his friends, according to knowledgeable people, was because it exposes the day to day secrets of the clergy and since the editors are also people of the clergy, they have been continually exposing and from time to time would leave the clergy and their people naked, it was a measure to tackle the problem before it's too late, although some argued that "one which is rotten isn't frightened of rain" as the Ethiopian saying goes..
It's saddening not to see Merha Tewahedo on her appointment date, which is popular for its educative, important articles colorful and maintaining her religious contents; sorrowful to her customers tough pleasing Aba Paulos and his dears, believed that it would come out on March 26, 1998.
From Fiameta February 25, 1998
Ethiopian living Abroad Have Made Great Demonstrations Protesting Against EPRD.
In demonstrations conducted in Ottawa (Canada), Washington DC, London (England), Haig, Brussels, Sweden ...etc. as it is necessary and in different ways expressed their strange protest against TPLF/EPRDF saying that racial regulations should be reversed so as to cooperatively protect our country from EPLF, that fellow people who were kidnapped and whose address is not known should be disclosed, that chasing away oppositions, terrorizing, killing, kidnapping and torturing them should be stopped, and similar banners were carried and statements were shouted on the streets.
According to Hawarya who closely followed the Canadian side of the process and execution of opposition process in the great effort the coordinating committee made on the date (July 7/1999) in Ottawa, many Ethiopians who came from various places participated in the demonstration.
In this Ottawa demonstration youngsters participated widely, while the encouragement and strong participation and mothers and sisters showed should be mentioned here.
The demonstration was accompanied by police, carried slogans and banners, at times shouting the statements, colorfully passing in front of the Canadian parliament, then to TPLF/EPRDF embassy office, crossing the main road, keeping traffic regulations many by stander Canadians receiving leaflets and reading the slogans and even some of them joining in the demonstration by holding slogans, taking to the coordinators about the aim of the demonstration, showed their support by giving different signals.
As soon as the Ottawa demonstration was over, Ethiopians living in Ottawa held a reception to Ethiopians who came all the way there from other areas.
These Ethiopians living in Ottawa invited to their reception starting from an organization, who requested them permission for demonstration up to security – related preparations, including the peaceful participants in the demonstration, not only left them with appreciation but also, proved that there are Ethiopians everywhere who would spend their time and money for their country.
In the journey that was going on to Ottawa from various places, and in its return journey as we observed that of the Toronto, the continual agitating songs, and chanting and brotherly, sisterly love that was in the rented big bus was unforgettable.
At this time, as it's heard from most of the Ethiopians living in Diaspora, the fact that TPLF/EPRDF is not using the historical coincidence to reconcile with the people and opposition and not being ready to defend the attack waged against the country; in addition, the fact that it gave verdict of up to 20 years imprisonment, the fact that, as we heard recently, the renown medical scholar and founder and president of All Amhara People's Organization, professor Asrat Woldeyes, being behind bars for a long time and after having been tortured, though he was allowed to have medication, couldn't survive and passed away ...etc.
These all are proofs that the TPLF group can never be and want to charge and correct mistakes, they said.               .
Hence, such kind of opposition demonstrations and the struggle that goes on at different angles would be expected to go width and continuity.
Those who supported and are thinking of supporting when the "country is said to be attacked by aggressors" have now become hopeless and discouraged to the political measures TPLF had taken and is taking at the moment, this has become known to all..
From Fiameta July 28, 1999
Properties plundered by Illegal individuals are being returned through police search
Many people and government's properties which were illegally plundered the day before yesterday are being returned in different districts through police search.
The ENA reporters in their observation at district 2 and 5, they have seen police having the looters returned TVs, Decks, video cassettes, radios, watches and shoes from Anbesa shoe store.
And sieves of hold and various tools of jewelry stores are being under control together with criminals through police search and informants form the community.
In these districts dwellers are leading their normal lives in a stable situation, chairman of district 5 Miss Meseret Bekele and chairman of district 2 and sub district 13 Mr. Jenberu disclosed.
Police is having a tight security in every place, it was disclosed.
Similarly, the disturbance and plundering that occurred the day before yesterday in Addis Ababa by few students and hooligans was completely controlled yesterday and the people are leading their daily lives, the city is also in perfect stability.
According to the Ethiopian News Agency reporters' observation the day before yesterday there was great plundering form government and private properties, and seeing such kind of plundering was not a very common act among Ethiopians and there told that it's indecent.
From Addis Zemen April 20, 200.
In the Election Held in Somalia Region the Incumbent party is leading
In the election held last September 3 in Somalia region for regional and council of representatives, the incumbent party is leading, the electoral board disclosed.
According to the disclosure of the electoral board yesterday, out of three parties and privately competed individuals 23 seats for council of representatives and 168 seats for regional council, 470 candidates had competed.
Based on the result so far attained, the Somali People Democratic Party (SPDP) is leading in all the nine election zones, the electoral board told..
Out of the 1,150,000 people who was registered to vote in the region, were than three-fourth gave votes and the participation of the people in the election was great, explained in related news.
From the start up to the end, the election process didn't face that much problem, some observers told.
It was possible to know that in the election in both councils the Somali People Democratic Party presented 191, the United Somali Democratic Forces, 123, the West Somali Democratic Party 81, and privately 156 candidates, totally for 191 seats 551 candidates were presented. .
In the mean time, in two election regions of Gode zone, United Somali Democratic Forces (USDF) and Somali People Democratic Party /SPDP/candidates won, the zonal electoral board coordinator Mr. Wondwosen Wube disclosed last Monday..
Out of the five election regions in the zone, the results of the three regions couldn't reach the zone due to communication problem, and hence, was not possible to make winners official, Mr. Wondwosen mentioned.
In the two election regions were counting was done, the winners would get acceptance if the National Election Board receive and approves, the zonal electoral board coordinator explained.
Form Addis Zemen September 6, 200.
A call has been made for Opposition Organizations to Form A coalitio.
A War is being set on Fire in Afar
-Tension due to Arrest in Asab – Concern in Asayt.
Recently a conference on peace and democracy has been conducted in regional and zonal level, where leadership reshuffling was said to occur in Afar, and where ARDUF, the opposition activist leadership members, were said to have come to the peaceful forum, redundant clashes are taking place in the region in a short-time, and Asaita town is being protected by machine guns, it was disclosed.
After the clash in Afambo and the president, Mr. Ismael's residence had been hit by a launcher grenade, Asaita town was attacked in a week's time, where electric light and communication were also disconnected..
Asaita town residents who were concerned about this situation, few of them went to Nazareth town while most residents, assuming they could be attacked at night in their homes, started frequenting to stay out to the fields at night, it was disclosed.
The clash between EPRDF army and ARDUF forces are spreading to other areas and war is being set on fire, it was disclosed.
In the mean time, the EPLF army which happened to be in Djibouti was seriously attacked by ADRUF and FRUD coalition operation, so in order to strengthen its forces, it recently conducted mass arrest in Asab town.
On the other hand, the Afar Revolutionary Democratic, Unity Front (ARDUF) and the Sidama people Liberation Front (SPLF) leaving aside the separate struggle that they used to conduct, for it didn't help any good except elongating the minority national ruling class who claim to rule Ethiopia in the pretext of Federal regime, integrate their forces and agreed to struggle in coalition, and disclosed this to others calling all opposition political organizations to join their coalition.
The chair persons of the two organizations Mr. Mohammed Gaaz and Mr. Wolde Amanuel Dubale recently have met in London and signed a agreement, releasing a mutual statement saying that maintaining the existence of each organization, they expressed they have reached a mutual agreement to form a coalition between Afar and Sidama peoples, together with the rest of Ethiopians so that the country could be saved from racial politics and dictatorial regime of one political organization.
The two organizations were able to reach this agreement: .
1. In order to peacefully resolve the problem created in the country, the separate effort they made was given a response from EPRDF that showed force and didn't want to open doors for peaceful negotiation;.
2. The suppression and intervention TPLF/EPRDF regime is making on Afar and Sidama people's political, cultural and economic life, there has been found no other alternative to keep the legal and self-protection right of the two people, from the perspective of the present practical situation; ARDUF and SPLF, integrating the political, diplomatic and military struggle of Afar and Sidama peoples, and in order to keep their national and democratic rights, they believed to form the mutual cooperation.
3. ARDUF and SPLF agreed to resolve any misunderstanding between the two people peacefully and strengthen their healthy relations.
4. ARDUF and SPLF agreed to recognize the two people's right of self-determination and respect their democratic rights.
Both organizations took the multiparty political regime in to consideration, and through peacefully resolving misunderstandings with all democratic and national forces of the country, have reached a mutual consensus to oblige the dictatorial regime which held power in the country to subdue to all-embracing elected government which can be accountable for democratic order and the people.
5. Both organizations believe that the constitution that was drafted by EPRDF and put operational doesn't have power distribution and it's led by Stalin's ideology, reflects a one-party dictatorship.
We realized that the principle of self administration that was said to be given to the regions is indirectly fenced by the ruling regime, hence, it couldn't make it control the government which is in power.
Therefore, both sides understand that the constitution which is operational at present doesn't reflect the basic rights of citizens which is decreed in chapter three and doesn't have an order of free court of justice, which opens doors for human rights violation and killings of peaceful citizens..
6. ARDUF and SPLF strongly condemns the TPLF/EPRDF divide-and rule policy and the distrust that is wanted to spread among Ethiopia people, and in its place, they facilitate the situation where all Ethiopians could live trusting one another and in brotherly cooperative spirit..
7. ARDUF and SPLF request to urgently leave the areas the Tigrean forces who camped in Afar and Sidama, who have been instruments to elongate the years of the ruling regime, and are suppressing the peace, humanity, freedom and democracy of the people and human rights violation.  .
8. ARDUF and SPLF make a call for all political opposition organizations which are struggling for true democracy, the right to self-administration, subduing to the rule of law and peacefully resolving this understanding, to stand by their side.
9. Taking in to account the complicated situation the controversy of the country brought about, ARDUF and SPLF call for the international community to stop, for the time being, the comprehensive aid they offer and listen to the shouts of Afar and Sidama people who are found in a tormented and oppressed situation.
The two organizations request and remind the international community especially countries which have diplomatic and economic relations with TPLF/EPRDF to put pressure on the regime so as to make it respect the basic human rights of its citizens and resolve misunderstandings through peaceful means of negotiation rather than through force..
From Tobia October 30, 1997
690 Ethiopians Entered their Country from Asmara, 220 Eritreans were seen off Through Rama
690 Ethiopian civilians who were in Eritrea entered their country, Ethiopian Red Cross Association Tigray central Zone Branch Office disclosed.
Head of the office Mrs. Roman Zemichael expressed yesterday that the Ethiopians entered Adowa coming through adiquala, - Rama.
Having been identified by the international Red Cross the returnees entered their country, Ethiopian officials received them the head of the office told..
It's known that last February 17, 2001 488 Ethiopians returned to their homeland in a similar way.
In a similar way, based on the request they made to go to their country, 220 Eritreans with recognition of the international Red Cross, were seen off through Rama. .
Ethiopian Red Cross Association, secretary of the Adigrat office Mr. Berhane Alemu disclosed that Eritreans who were seen off to their country were 155 from Tigray eastern zone and 65 from Makele.
The secretary who reminded that the Eritreans were seen off for the sake of a nation's security, they were living peacefully using their wealth and properties properly and with their human rights kept, before their journey they sold what's to be sold and, what they wanted for themselves, kept with then and went to their country, the secretary disclosed.
From Addis Zemen March 3, 200.
Cars of Higher Officers were Snatched from them
The deputy commander-in-chief of the defense army Transport, Birgadier General Gebre Egziabeher is being evaluated by 6 Generals who were appointed after the reformation with regards to corruption and untidiness that he had for so many times made and dissolved work structured so as to help individuals and regarding human resource management he was following disorderly working procedure, but he may not face charges, internal sources disclosed.
In related development, cars which were under the ownership of the military institution Generals and higher officers that were bought with expensive foreign currency are made to be gathered at the camp in Gofa, it was disclosed.
The officers who used three and four cars as their own and entertain themselves and their families with the government gas, the budget of gas in the army was extremely high, the related news explained.   .
For those officers who are said to need cars for their work, the transport section has now formed a committee and is working to give one car each, the news also disclosed.
Nonetheless, there's a concern that this disorderly and superfluous transport use is still to continue in different forms, some information pointed out.
From Kokeb February 4, 200.
As of Today people are to go in to Retreat for seven days
So as to pray for God for His mercy to make peace reign in Ethiopian Orthodox Church and in general for our country there would be a retreat in the Merciful Saint Michael church that lasts for seven consecutive days as of from December 9, 1998.
The retreat that stays for seven days starts just at 3 o'clock in the afternoon until the end of the last day, oath and intercession and prayer would be carried out, the fellow groups who know about the retreat explained.
Moreover, these fellow groups reminded that if these are no peace and love the people couldn't lead comfortable lives, hence energy Christian should be available in this great retreat and together should pray and shout to God.     .
In addition, God is near for those who shout (call upon) Him from the bottom of their heart; and shouting to God as one heart, one idea is the task of Christians, they said.
In this retreat that lasts from 9-12-98 up to 15-15-98 many Christians are said to be served, they pointed out.
And if laity who does not know about the retreat should come and share the blessing, they said..
He wished a good retreat..
From Fiameta December 10, 199.
The American Ambassador Pleaded Businessmen!
In a trade conference held in New Orleans, America, American Ambassador April 24 for Ethiopia sent a pleading message for the business people to come to Ethiopia..
According to Ambassador David shinn the economy of the horn of Africa at present is found in resurrection, but he didn't deny that there are some problems.
Moreover, the ambassador explained to the participants that Ethiopia is 3rd next to Egypt and Nigeria in the number of population, export hide and skin..
With regards to coffee sale he explained that 17% of it is bought by America and is found 2nd next to Germany..
The ambassador also unveiled to the participants that 3 years back around 40 business people were in the country but at present 180 American companies are present. .
In general, the ambassador pleased the business people to come and invest their money..
That Ethiopian is a democratic country and he said other things, too, Observers criticized the ambassador saying he's a spokes person of EPRDF.  .
From Fiameta April 29, 1998
242 Eritrean war Captives Returned to their Country  .
In the agreement reached between Eritrea and Ethiopia, 242 Eritrean war captives who were kept in Dedesa captive Center started to go to their countries yesterday, the International Red Cross Committee disclosed.
The captives who started from Dedesa yesterday morning would reach Dangela when the night fell and pass the night there, the committee disclosed.
The Eritrean war captives who are traveling being supported by the committee, keeping their human rights and given the necessary care, would pass their country's border the coming Sunday, the committee disclosed.
The information that came out from Dedesa captive's center recently showed that 54 Sawa trainees and old-timer EPLF soldiers, went to Yemen, Germany, Italy, America an other countries, on their own will.
Based on the question 220 Eritrean put forwarded to go their country, last March 1, traveled with the recognition of international Red Cross, the committee also disclosed.
From Addis Zemen March 9, 200.
The Secretary who Looted the Cathedral's Money was again Exposed to Crime.
Deacon Haile Ghiorgis Mamo who took 6500 Birr but never retuned to the church, flew to another church and was again exposed to crime in the church were is working as a secretary, it was reported. .
Out of the 6500.00(six thousand five hundred) beer he took from the cathedral, the secretary returned only 1000 Birr, denying the remaining? It was decided in a court session held on March 5, 1997 that he pay the 5500 Birr he hasn't returned yet, and 300 Birr loss, although he hasn't paid as yet, for he kept low profile in the place he took a transfer.  .
His not paying the money brought about many disputes among many innocent fathers, observers told. .
The Addis Ababa Office of preaching assembly wrote a letter ordering deacon Haile Ghiorgis to return the money to the cathedral, and Afe Memhir Haile Marim Gebre Libanos was suspended from job the following day after this letter was written..
The story didn't end here, on December 27, 1998 he took 260 dollar and 450 Birr that was given by laity who made vows, making use of the chaotic coincidence but when the church administrator asked him, he replied I forgot it at home in my pocket of the clothes I have just changed, and I will bring it tomorrow; later he pleaded to deacon Fantahun Mihret not to expose him, but later falsely accused of the controller, deacon Fantahun, of taking the money from him, misleading the office of preaching making the controller to be suspended form job, bringing misery to both people, the report explained..
The secretary who's said to be smart aleck and has the ability to tie him self with higher bodies and who undermines preaching assembly of Petros we Paulos whom he work with as well as the secretary at times put his signature on documents even while the official is around; he's so money-minded, and due to this he asked bribe from the contractor who does lament work and statue, and forbid him his contract money for not giving him bribe, although after so many up and downs the contractor's share was made to be paid, the report pointed out..
Because this secretary is known its demagogue nature different misdeeds, the administrator of the church and the secretary of the preaching assembly suspected that he might destroy documents and as of June 12, 1998 has sealed the office, although the secretary hid and come to the office on June 3 at 5 o'clock in the morning and removed the sealed paper and attempted to take various documents when suddenly caught red-handed by the church security guards, went to district 25 police station helped by police offices, it was known..
But according to the observers, due to the special relations the secretary had with Aba Gebre Michael and Mr. Yared the salary for Deacon Haile Ghiorgis was raised by 173.00 Birr and reached 763.00 Birr, though the budget allocated for the secretary of the church was 590.00 Birr; yet, he was not satisfied with the favor he received and his remaining discontent is regrettable, they said..
There are commentator who say "Before the tear dries".
Haile Ghiorgis Mamo's friendship goes as far as the patriarch, and at one time relying on the patriarch's friendship, he had a confrontation with Aba Gerima, in which case the latter sent priest Haile Ghiougis to some remote areas as a demotion, and wandered for almost light months; Aba Paulos, whom he relied fully couldn't save him, as the Ethiopian saying goes "a donkey's husband doesn't save the wife from hyena"; so the secretary who was told not to repeat such misdeed and returned to his work, was again into it before the tear dried, which was shameful act, concluded the commentators.
However the Secretary once again on may 29, 1998 his where about was not traced after he had taken 100 dollars which was given as vow offering, in a pretext of exchanging it into Ethiopian Birr, insiders are telling..
Since the church's preaching assembly was aware of the Secretary's lack of skill and ethical problem, it suspended him from his work and salary..
Other commentators suggested that it's unthinkable for a worker who took 5500.00 Birr of a church and was not requested to be suspended form his work and salary: for if there were a judge he would have returned the money he took.          .
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
The Board Postponed the time Table by a Month when it would make Election Results Official
The Ethiopian National Electoral Board decided to postpone the time schedule by a month when it would announce election results.
Acting Registrar at the office of party Registration, Mr. Makonen Wondimu disclosed that the board postponed the time schedule in a meeting it conducted yesterday;
The reason as to why the time table was postponed was because the board believed that it needed additional time to add up the election results of higher educational students from the various polling stations and make it official.
Besides, in order to investigate and identify the complaints and petitions presented from different parties an finish all the election procedures and make official, it has found it impossible with the previous time table, it was disclosed.
Therefore, in order to make the results official on a national level, the previously schedule June 9, 2005 has been postponed by one month, and it has disclosed that results would be announced on July 1 2005 in all the country on a board level.
The board extended its time schedule based on the amended election law proclamation 111/87 and proclamation 438/97.
More over, Ethiopian electoral board announced that out of the total polling stations, it received temporary results of 515 polling stations.
From Addis Zemen June 4, 2005
The commission gave Response to the Question Raised Vis-à-vis Eritrans
We talked to the pertinent bodies of Office of the commission about Eritreans who used to work in United Nations African Economic Commission but now expired.
The responses which were given to Fiameta for the questions we raised would come out in our coming Wednesday edition, but the questions we raised are published in this edition believing it may serve for awareness.
United Nations
African Economic Commission
A.A subject:- Asking about details of Eritreans who used to work in the commissio.
1. Is it possible to have the names of 27 Eritreans who used to work for the commission?
2. Does Ethiopian government have the authority to expire these Eritreans, for they work in the United Nations organization?
3. Staffs of the United Nations should work free from politics.
Nevertheless, it's known that Eritreans who work in ECA were working form being a member of EPLF up to Chairmanship of Eritrean community.
Knowing all these, why were they kept in ECA?
4. It has been in the legislation that administration workers of United Nations should be employed form the incumbent country.
However, up to recently, Eritreans were kept in their positions in administrative works at ECA.
Why?
5. Instead of returning him to Eritrea, why was chairman of Eritrean Community Mr. Mesfin Haileselassie was with ECA cooperation, sent to Nairobi?
6. After 15 days Mr. Mesfin Haileselassie left the county, it is known that his office was opened by a security group led by the Nigerian Olo Kodana..
During this time Eritrean name lists and other documents written in Tigrina language were found.
What does your office know about this issue?
7. The money Eritreans who work in ECA have in Ethiopia has said to have been transferred to ECA account after they have asked for it before a month.
How much is this true?
8. Would Ertreans, who have now been sheltered in some embassies and are going to be evicted, go to Asmara or to the country of their preference.
9. Would Eritreans be transferred to similar offices in an optional county or would be expired after offering them their service remuneration.
10. Is there any way ECA could prove that these lists of Eritreans who were now said to be evicted are really Eritreans?
If there is/are individuals who were falsely claimed to be Eritreans, could the organization defend them?
We thank you in advance for the cooperation and answers given to us.
Dawit Kebed.
Editorial Chairman
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
The Relics that were taken from St. Mary Lideta, Church Disappeared
One Tablet of the Law was Under Police contro.
The unique relics that were taken at different times from the sanctuary of St. Mary church by the officials of the church office, threatening the head of the treasury house of the sanctuary had disappeared, it was disclosed.
Among these priceless unique antiquities, golden mantles, silver sistrums, silver prayers sticks, written documents made on parchment, are found.
In a pretext of borrowing them for the wedding ceremony of the secretary of the sanctuary, Deacon Fisseha Kidane kal, several expensive and modern carpets had never been returned, the report from the area pointed out.
The illegal acts and theft performed in the sanctuary are by now being exposed, and in this shameful act the secretary and including these "so-called controller" and financial bodies seem to not only to be suspicious of being drowned in to it, but are surely told to have been taking part in it, it was disclosed. .
The report explained that from those spouses that grew up from childhood up to the age of marriage in a pretext of "the wedding certificate price, 3000 (3 thousand) Birr was stolen illegally, and had been the cause for the failure of the spouses chances to go abroad; in general it's from this sanctuary that such despicable looting was conducted.
The spouses believed that they must take the wedding certificate from the church "that we grew up and got married", but it was despicable to see such shameful and unclean crime committed by officials who were given responsibility. .
The spouses detailing the injustice committed up on them requested the church to pay moral compensation, paying the money that was taken from them illegally, while the secretary was sent to prison but after a while were released on bail for the long sickness together with the shock he got made him in severe health crisis, it was disclosed.
The secretary who was said to have had many changed in the court was called "thief! Thief!" by the people around the area the court while appearing these, the news that came from there pointed out..
The report which expressed that the secretary had for long stopped going to his office due to sickness, also pointed out that although the office of National Preaching in a letter written to him by No. 8030/28/99, July 31, 1999 requested him to hand over the seal of the office, he declined to do so.
As a result of this exposure of financial and property embezzlement all the pertinent necessary offices of documentation are still sealed.
The area Christian laity and priests unanimously agreed to have him "audited" where as there are still positions taken to "have him audited by government auditors".
As the embezzlement of Lideta church's finance and property have become aggravated from time to time, as a result of administrative deficiency there are priests of the sanctuary who are striving to take the case to the legal institution and take the necessary follow-up, but the secretary's group are heard to have made an attempt of attack, and are said to have plans to do so now, it was disclosed.
After the new preaching forum and administrator started strict control, it was unbelievably witnessed to have gotten 280,000 (two hundred eighty thousand) Birr only in a month time, which surprised many.     .
The secretary as well as its groups whom the income have stopped coming, are trying to hide their wrongs, that had already been obvious to all, and are now in public attempting to connect the case with politics irrelevantly, are plotting to accuse the rest, the report explained..
In the mean time, it was disclosed that one tablet of the law was caught jut before it was sold by district 22 police.
While nothing is known as to where the tablet of the law came from, the person who was in possession of it and the tablet of the law were caught by priests of the Lideta church and district 22 police force, had stayed for some time in district 22 police station, and were sent to central police investigation and coordination office, the news that came from the area disclosed..
Up to the time this report was organized, nothing is known as to what happened to the tablet of the Law that went to the central police.
Nonetheless, since the individual who was said to sell the tablet of the law by 70 (seventy) Birr was caught red handed, observers said it was a historical work..
From Fiameta August 25, 1999
Meles Zenawi presents a 32-page report today.
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of EPRDF government presents a general quarterly report to the council of representatives today.
In this 32 pages report although it may not be so different from his previous reports, it's disclosed from the report that we got that he wanted to put pressure on some decisive issues.
In the report he presented the opposition parties and the free press under the same heading, he stated that his government plans to perform an integrated work to create a better relationship his government has with the free press..
"In order to make the free press operate under the law and order of the regional governments and as to what kind of measure the government should take a wide study is bring underway..
To study the positive and negative sides of the free press, identifying the ethical behavior of the media, why and how the laws of the country are violated and how should they be respected, a wide work is being conducted.".
Says Mr. Meles' report, "...we believe a conducive environment would be created to strengthen the press which play constructive role and correct or sift those which have destructive aim and mission."
He said.
With regards to the army that would be reduced, the report stated that it had successfully conducted the army force human resource reduction plan. .
In order to make the remaining force combat efficiency and preparedness excel more than any other time, make its outlook according to what government intends, the conducted evaluation and training bore fruits, it was stated.
As to reducing the military and housing problem and the building of contingent force, a study is nearing completion, it's stated in the report.
With regards to foreign relations, one of the issues the report mentioned was the case of Djibouti. .
The relations the country had with Djibouti was good but in the midst of continuing friendship, some problems have cropped up occasionally, the report disclosed..
Unless the root causes, of these problems have been identified, government is aware that they could develop in to a dangerous characteristic, it's underscored in the report.
The Somalian situation which is related to terrorism has been widely included in this report, "Unless terrorism is fought with determination, peace won't reign in Somalia," and continued, "except trying to bring peace in Somalia, it's impossible to fight terrorism permanently an in a lasting situation..
It said.
"If the international communities have the interest and capability to do away with terrorism from Somalia, we believe that a much more fruitful work could be done with fellow Somalians and the surrounding counters.
Hence, Ethiopia in her capability to make IGHAD's decision practical would be willing to work cooperatively with all sides..
Said the report.
The report that raised certain issues regarding Ethiop-Eritrean relations, praised the ongoing debate that is conducted at international level.
The report that praised the contribution of historical searchers who are friends of Ethiopia, also mentioned that, "we have contracted the lawyers with lots of money who bore fruit representing Yemen" during the time of Yemen and Eritrean border conflict, the report disclosed. .
In the report that would be presented in the parliament today, other than the MPs, Ethiopian government ambassadors and diplomats who are currently attending the meeting in the ministry of foreign affairs are expected to participate, parliamentarian sources disclosed..
From Tomar January 29, 2002.
Ethiopian Unity Front Released a statement!!
Ethiopian Unity front (EUF) announced in the statement it released on March 9, 1998 that it is a coalition front formed by EDFC, Benshangul Peoples Freedom Movement, one wing of ‘Kefagn' (that's ‘Kefagn' peoples Patriotic Movement).
This front who's led by the secretary Mr. Mersha Yoseph and announced by various national and foreign media, released a statement vis-à-vis the coalition..
Based on the release of this statement which came out on March 5, 1998, it's at present engaged in killing injuring and taking captives soldiers in gorilla fighting, confiscating different automatic, semi-automatic ammunitions and other important materials..
Three comrades were killed on the side of EUF while other 4 were injured lightly, it said..
In addition this statement explained that most of the fighting's were conducted in Gondar region, Chilga district.     .
On the other hand, the newspaper which comes out every two weeks and the gazette of EUF, Admas gazette, in its 2nd volume No. 4, April 8, 1998 edition, disclosed that Ethiopian Unity Front Support an Aid coordination committee are devotedly doing their activities elsewhere..
Based on this, the support and Aid committee which is found in Netherlands (Holland) made its statement official..
According to the explanation of this committee...the solution for the severe problems our people have, at the present as well as in the future is undoubtedly when the kidnapping and suppression stops and ever happens, the equality of all Ethiopian people is assured and their rights respected..
And this calls for bitter sacrifice...first of all, those who sacrificed their precious and only life for their cause and those unique Ethiopians who will sacrifice have special responsibility and duty for Ethiopia and he children, and concluded its statement by questing "A promise is a debt of faith and not of a father or a mother"..
Although continued statements are being made regarding the Ethiopian Unity Front, no response has been given by the government..
Except that occasionally government bodies say that this is a rebel activity; there was no time it gave recognition to Ethiopian Unity Front..
Ethiopian unity front has for the first time revealed its military activities with the help of photographs.   .
From Fiameta April 29, 1998
Editoria.
A New Direction in a New Year
Today it's the day the Ethiopian New Year, 1990 begins and from now on we will be saying farewell to the year which we call "the old year", 1998.
When we feel that we are now in the New Year we should also feel how much we lagged behind the other nations.
In a normal chronometry, today we are eight years back.
However, this has been the result of our calendar.
When we look at it from the stand point of our real existence, what should worry us is our remoteness in light years in comparison with those who reached great development stage.
23 years ago today the military forces that shook the government of HaileSelassie I, they officially disclosed that more than 100 thousand people died in Wollo and Tigray due to drought and famine that resulted from drought. .
After that we all started exposing the flaws accusing the regime.
Add this continued for long.
If it was according to what we said, if it was in accordance to our accusations, there wouldn't be famine any more, and even one citizen wouldn't have died as a result of lack of food.
Yet, around 1984 – 1985 that same guest, drought visited more than 9million people..
It brought along with it a special kind of disease called "Ergotism".
Once again, we became proofs for the international philanthropists of famine propaganda, once again for the routine poverty.
At this moment, we are in the hands of another government. .
When this government came to power, it vowed not to see famine..
It bragged to show to the world Ethiopia's prosperity in crops, the land's blessing and its natural endowment..
In fact, it was broadcasted before the world as having brought about results within a short period of time..
But the reality on the ground shows that millions of Ethiopians are dying from drought and famine.
"From now on guns would be changed in to plough "it was said.
Nevertheless, we still have clashes and civil wars.
As we see it from the main report of our newspaper, although they say "its peace", children of the country are dying from war that is hidden form the people.   .
Why?
The death-toll in drought, contagious diseased and others such as malaria and those who are terrorized by lack of peace are countless.
Out the 57 million Ethiopian people, perhaps for few of them a reliable shield may have been built against famine and disease.
But the majority of the Ethiopian population is the victim of the famine, disease and war.
So, it's naïve to think that the Ethiopian people would have something to hope for in the New Year..
The term Ethiopian people doesn't refer to the few, modern city dwellers.
When we say Ethiopian people we don't mean those government officials who work at Arat Kilo, and live at Bole district.
These do, by no means, represent the majority of the Ethiopian people. .
At these places, champagne could pour out, whisky could be drunk, and an ox could be slaughtered. .
If we try to measure the living standard of the majority of the population by this scale, it would be a sin.
Because the Ethiopian population has for ages been put down, suppressed and suffering and even to day didn't say "enough"..
It's a population whose throat always dry and famished..
As if this were not enough, its national dignity, whom it relies on has been violated and vanished, and his hope is being robbed from him..
Even Ethiopianness which is his last public pride lost value..
While the conditions are not as such commendable to say "A good year has come" out hearts would fill wit hope when he hear that there are fellow people in some places who shout for unity.
We are pleased to see the work-lover people of Gurage coming to unity, humiliating the "children" who were saying "we're not Gurages" and disturb the peace.
On the question of whether the people of silte is Gurage, or not, the people chose to be unified rather than divided.
The people of Gurage taking the Ethiopian flag as the sole embelm raised a principle named "in unity mutual development".
It's for all a gesture of good example.
When we hear and see government mass media that used to spread the poison of racism among people yesterday, are now condemning "narrowness and racism", we came to understand that the seed of unity the united forces planted and developed stated producing fruit..
Therefore, we celebrate the New Year watering this good seed and promising to bear more fruit.
In a spirit of national reconciliation, let's bury racist politics and hatred, and stand united on poverty, famine and demagogue.
We don't want any of our fellow individual to wake up suddenly in the middle of the night with a dying hope, and with a departure of good feeling.
One should not continue cursing itself, "I'm destined to ..."
Instead, as of today he has to struggle to take his destiny in his own hands, to make his country his own, to decide his future life himself.
There's no other mundane fore that wipes his tears, amend his hope.     .
Anyway, Happy New Year.
From Tobia September 11, 1997
Our Youth Team Passed for the World Cup in Argentina; An Important Milestone is Registered.
The Ethiopian Youth National Team Yesterday defeated South African team at Addis Ababa Stadium in a wide margin 4 – 1 holding first position in its group and assured that it has passed for Argentina's Youth soccer World Cup.
Our Youth team has succeeded in achieving its goal of passing for the semi-final for the 12th African Youth Soccer champion through the goals scored by Hussien Seman and Yordanos Abay in the first half, and Zewdu Bekele and Ashenafi Girma in the second half..
According to the decision of the African Soccer Federation (CAF) to cancel Cameroon's and Egypt's results and replay to defeat one another, on Saturday, Ethiopian Youth team bet 4 to 1, that is, defeating by 2 more goals, in 4 points and 2 goal difference, it stood first.
At the same time, in a match held between Egypt and Cameroon at Abebe Bikila Stadium, Egypt beating 3 to 1, passed for the semi final being 2nd from its group..
Mr. Melaku Petros representative of Federal sport Commission, Mr Tsehaye G/Egziabeher, leader of the team, Mr. Tamene Yerdaw, assistant coach of the team, coach of South African team, Captain of the team, Defyalew Tesfaye and Ashenafi Girma whom we talked immediately after the game said they were satisfied on the results achieved and happy and thank the Ethiopian people for its co inexhaustible moral support it renders for it enabled them to become successful..
The fair decision of CAF not only showed its good heartedness for the development of football but, above all, it made us get the opportunity to pass for world Youth Soccer cup, said Mr. Melaku Petros, and continued that the result is critical to the country's football development and heartily thanked all who helped and supported for the success of the competition, and the people.  .
The Youth African Coach on his part said except that the air was heavy, they didn't face any obstacles and he didn't regret his team didn't pass for semi-final..
He was satisfied with the support the spectators gave them and then he passed his congratulations message to the Ethiopian people. .
Foreign journalists and experts who followed the games, from the stadium pointed out that Ethiopian team got what it deserved and found the support of the spectators fantastic and wished our team reached for the final cup..
The spectators in the stadium and the people who were following the game on television came from different quarters and gathered around the stadium expressing their extreme joy through dance, music and cars' horns, lighting cars and waving flags, turning the city in to jubilation, the whole evening.  .
From Addis Zemen March 27, 2001
Sudan Government is to file Charges Against Ethiopians who kidnapped Airplanes..
The Sudan government is to file charges of being terrorist against five Ethiopians who kidnapped one Air force Airplanes while it was having local flight, obliging it to land in Sudan, according to Reuters..
Reuters quoting Al-Anba daily Sudanese newspaper from Khartoum, in the report it broadcasted the day before yesterday, the kidnappers would also be filed charges of putting in danger the lives of peaceful citizens..
The Sudanese Foreign minister, Ismael previously told that according to the agreement reached with the kidnappers, the charges would be viewed in Sudan..
The minister was heard being quoted that they may home death sentence, the report reminded..
The report also disclosed that Ethiopia asked the kidnappers to be given to her.
It's to be recalled that the five kidnappers after having obliged the airplane that was having a local flight on April 26, 2001 landed it in Kartoum, released the people on board and gave themselves up to the Sudan government..
From Addis Zemen May 15, 2001   .
There's Worry Ethiopia Might Lose Abay Due to Algiers Agreement .
After the Ethio-Eritrean border conflict that lasted over two years was completed with military victory of Ethiopia, the Algiers agreement that was signed in the hope to bring lasting place is said to put at risk Ethiopia's ownership of Abay.
The Ethiopian Democratic Party (EDP) in a statement it gave regarding the public demonstration it called on Sunday February 11, 2002 at Masqel Square from 9:00 o'clock on wards, stated that if the agreement is not finalized soon, it could be considered as giving in Abay just like that of Asab, it said.
Since the Ethio-Eritrean peace agreement signed in Algiers, capital of Algeria in December, 2001 mainly rested up on the 1900, 1902 and the 1908 colonization treaty Ethiopian and Italian governments singed, it gives away Ethiopian's benefits, and, hence, signing, this document knowing its repercussions, said EDP's statements, put in to question its sympathetic feeling to the country.
In addition, the Algiers agreement quoted from the treaty make between Ethiopia and Italian governments, so the EPLF government could not negotiate on them; the treaties were made under the compulsion of the Italian government and not under equivalent benefit, they do not have acceptability in international law; besides, they were violated in 1936 due to the Italian invasion and based on the peace treaty Italy made in 1955 with the winners of World War II (America, England, Russia) she promised never to claim Eritrean as a colony and, so since they are cancelled, they are considered dead and buried, they said.    .
While those who gave responses to the raised questions in the press conference were higher officials of EDP, they stated that if Ethiopian agrees to be governed by these out dated laws in front of the international community, in the same token, she would be obliged to do so with other treaties for it was not only with Italy that she signed a treaty in 1910, they said.
TPLF/EPRDF is bringing out treaties from the grave which Ethiopia signed under compulsion and trying to give them legal basis, and especially the treaty Emperor Menelik signed with Italians in 1910 was the main source of their concern, EDP stated.
The treaty that was signed with the former colonizer of Egypt and Sudan, England, decreed that Ethiopia can not work any thing with Abay river without consulting Sudan and Egypt, and if EPRDF gave Asab with the 1902 treaty, it cold be realized now that the question of Abay would be the next thing under consideration, EDP higher officials said. .
The officials who gave responses for the questions raised during this press conference pointed out that since the United Nations decided Eritrea to unite with her country with federation in 1950 and based on the decision reps of Eritrea passed on in 1962, the federation decree was violated and Eritrea's issue had been decided to be incorporated in the unified sovereign state of Ethiopia, so all the treaties the Algiers agreement mentioned do not have legal basis, they explained.
For the question that reminded that the former government fought more to the land than to the people with regards to Eritrea, they responded EDP's focus was to bring the people with its land to Ethiopia, it was disclosed.  .
EDP holding this stand point continued the agitation it started to carry out a public meeting on February 13, 2002 at Masqel Square. .
From the Press February 6, 2002
The Patriarch continued Dismissing People out of Wor.
One Holy Father Too Encountered Suspensio.
The suspension of former holy fathers from their jobs as it is, the patriarch has continued dismissing more people from their work..
Sources quoting Holy Father Melake Aba Mihret Yimer stated that he has been brutally treated, inflicted injustice, suspended from job and when he appealed, nobody heard him for half a year now, and unfairness imposed upon the church by the patriarch still persists, explained the sources..
Melake Selam Aba Mihret has been working in different capacities and responsibilities for over 20 years and has been Chief Administrator in many churches; he was suspended from his 40 years church service by this patriarch, he explained..
The main cause for the suspension of this Holy Father from his work was the claim that an ascetic who criticized the patriarch was allowed to teach in the church whom he served as an administrator, and the suspension was enforced on him from the letter written by Nazreth clergy..
However, the chief Holy Father of Nazareth town, Nebure Ed Kifle Yohannes Mekonnen, disclosed that he took this measure of suspension on the Holy Father under the influence and command of the patriarch, and when Melake Selam Aba Mihret came to appeal to the patriarch, he wasn't welcomed; it has now been eight months since he was suspended. .
The cause for the tightening of the suspension after the patriarch discussed the issue with the chief Holy Father of Nazareth was believed to be his dire hatred to the ascetic..
Although the patriarch closed his doors over the suspended Holy Father, the administrator is still begging to be considered, he pointed out.
However, the efforts have been in vain..
We found out that measure of suspension took upon Melake Selam aba Mihret Yimer, who was transferred to Nazareth St. Gabriel from Addis Ababa, just because he was accused of not controlling the ascetic, reveals the patriarch's hatred to the ascetic..
Any way the 50 year old Holy Father have been a victim and his suffering as a result of the patriarch's hated to the ascetic.
These sources clearly stated that the patriarch is avenging his hatred of the ascetic on the poor administrator of the church, Melake Selam..
Melake Selam who was suspended form his job since March 1998 without having other additional reason, except that the ascetic were free to teach in his, church, has been continuously appealing to the patriarch at his place, though of no avail, internal sources reported. .
From Fiameta October 21, 1998
Twenty-eight MPs are to Leave the Council  .
In their representation by the people about twenty-eight MPs are to be ousted from the appointment they were given in the council, sources of the council disclosed to Tomar newspaper.
According to the sources, these EPRDF members whom most of them have first degree were given examination and after passing it they were needed to work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in various embassies.
Among these members of the council who are to leave their seats in parliament and to work full time in government work, Mr. Belete Rada, Mr. Yohannes Ginda, Mr. Ibrahim Abdela (from OPDO); Mr. Abdulaziz Ahmed, Mr. Shemsedin Ahmed (from Somali), and Mr. Denberu Alemu (form Southern Region) could be mentioned; it is also disclosed that there are two individuals from Gembela region and three people from TPLF.
According to the close sources to the issues, these members of the council were made to leave for they were recently raising strong questions regarding the salary of the MPs; and to avoid them in case they would bring forward other questions in the future.
The measure that was to be taken therefore, on these members who are believed to have better education was to remove them form the parliament and give them increment in the office of the legislative body so that they would keep silent, it was believed.
Those who see the measure that was to be taken in this perspective showed that while appointees in the office of the legislative, body get increments and high salaries, for MPs salaries are no made to improve and as recently questions have been raised a round this issue.
In a meeting held a week ago in one meeting of the council, this issue was raised; that the salaries of ministers who are also MPs are high; that ministers whom they appointed goby cars while these members do not have vehicles were said to be raised.
At that time, the House speaker Dawit Yohannes told them that the Ministers can get high salaries for they are workers of the office of legislative body,
To this remark of Mr. Dawit Yohannes some MPs suggested that either the ministers work in the parliament as well as in their ministries and let us get whatever benefit they get, in an equivalent level, or assign other professional people in their place.
At this time the house speaker Dawity Yohannes retorted, "We are elected to serve the people, but we didn't come here in search of money" it was said. .
In response to this speech of Mr. Dawit, one parliament member fired back, "If we came here to serve people, we all have to pay equal sacrifice," at this time the house speaker's temper flared at the meeting and said, "If at all I resign from this council, I would live by driving taxi," at which point the participants laughed.
It is to be recalled that his Excellency Mr. Dawit Yohannes used to live in driving a taxi while he was in the America at the time of his struggle.
Although it's not known whether there would be another election to substitute those members whom EPRDF is to take out of the council, according to observers, the EPRDF members who are needed to stay in the MP are those whose educational level are not more than diploma level.  .
Most of the MPs of EPRDF members who came form the regions were workers of agricultural development, elementary school teachers, farmers and small business people, the information available indicated according to the sources these reports..
From Tomar January 22, 2002
The Calf that got used to Sucking ...
The Eritrea's Red Sea Corporation was asked to pay in dollar... in Eritrea, tension still reigned
The Red Sea corporation or better know as 09, Eritrean business corporation won the bid to buy sesame from Humera, but while asking to make the payment in the "old" Ethiopian Birr collected from Eritrea, the pertinent Tigrean officieals requested the company to make the payment in dollars, ruling out acceptability, it was disclosed.
The company in the preceding years made several Ethiopian business people out of the market, by winning the be same bid for buying, amassing of lot of profit and the Tigrean officials ruled out this year's bid not only because they wanted to have them paid in dollars.
It is because they were annoyed to see this agricultural product that came from Tigray being exported preparing it as it came from Eritrea, and the Tigrean officials took this measure to punish them, our reporter from the area disclosed.
As the disagreement the bid created hasn't settled up to now -- the authorities of the Red Sea company, not only tried to convince the economic officials of Tigray but are trying to persuade the central government officials, while the issue was referred by the area people as "the calf that got used to sucking ......" quoting Ethiopian proverb.
Earlier it was reared to bring controversies for the fact that Ethiopian officials said the business transactions of the two countries would be conducted through dollar, white on the Eritrean side they had a strong interest that the transaction be through Nakfa and Birr it was to be recalled.
The statement both country's national bank governors gave to Reporter magazine showed that these was a wide difference between the officials of he two countries.
While the Eritrean officials and their consultants stick to "Nakfa" and "Birr" as means of exchange between the two countries, the Ethiopian National bank governor held dollar as a medium of business transactions.
On the other hand, the case of almost 3500 Ethiopian youngsters that were kidnapped from different towns of Eritrea at midnight twenty days before (most of whom were Tigrean nationals) hasn't got resolved.     .
The whereabouts of the youngsters not known after they expressed their opposition at Sawa military training center.
Their parents, forming a committee, put forward their appeal to Tigray administrative officials..
Although the Tigrean administrative officials had already made a secret arrangement to discuss with Eritrean government there has been no result yet.
Many believe that the youngsters were either put behind bars or else were made to work on Aligder Farming gathering cotton with a Serious army encircling.
Our reporter disclosed quoting some parents that there were some children who were attacked by gun fire shot from EPLF soldiers while they were attempting to escape, and they are worried.
The other news that reached as, was that a radio reporter in Asab town killed a colonel, who was his boss.
The assassinated colonel was the area commander-in-chief.
The operator was instigated to kill his boss due to his boss' receiving a message to conduct a military campaign to put the area youth in a mass arrest, take them to military training, and disarm the area farmers, which annoyed the operator, it was disclosed.
In order not to subdue himself under the hands of EPLF security forces, he immediately killed himself.
In the mean time, Eritrean accused that Sudan Army planes crossed the border and conducted an attack.
Sudan on her part said that in order to fulfill America's mission, apart fro helping oppositions, Eritrea sent infantry and her mechanized army, too, to the south, disclosed recently.
Since Eritrea didn't find enough to help oppositions only on the eastern front in her campaign towards Sudan, so she sent several army and artilleries to the South, Sudanese chairman of the Security and peace council, General Mohammed Abdella disclosed recently to "Akber Alyoum", his country's newspaper.
Eritrea, on her part, the Sudanese warplanes crossed up to 10 kms through gash and Setit districts, attacking the area.   .
Moreover, the Sudanese oppositions have widened their differences, and this created a problem for Mr. Isayas for not going his way, which is the other problem of Eritrea.
Sudan is investigating the opposition movement that had started in the western lowlands of Eritrea so that they become victorious over EPLF, there are some elites who are heard "... (Eritrean National Coalition)..." should be formed..
Among these Eritrean elites one of them was Dr. Tesfaye Medhane who was present in the annual festival Sewrawi Bayto prepared and presented a research paper highlighting the importance of the coalition. .
However, the organization which arranged the forum didn't accept the idea, the Indian Ocean Letters recently disclosed.
Sewrawi Bayto in its own paper, "Eritrean Newsletter" disclosed that it supported the establishment of the coaliton, but then, didn't want to work cooperatively with factions who made their aim the establishment of Islamic regime.
The national council which has been led by Abdela Idris, and the Islamic group that has been led by Arafat are operating as members of the coalition, Indian Ocean News Letter, mentioned.
The other thing that made Sudanese case difficult for Eritrea is the passivity of Ethiopia.
The anti-EPRDF government force are strengthening on the side of Sudan border, so it took out certain number of troops from the border area, while the activities of Sudan Embassy in Addis Ababa, has showed improvements.         .
The Sudan Club that is situated around Sarbet area has been opened and started to be functional, which could be one indication for this, as some said.
This change of stand is believed to be the main cause for the disagreement between the two countries;
On the Southeastern side, too the area that connects Tigrean and Afar Regions has been an obstacle for peace in Eritrea.
While there's an occasional clash with EPRDF army, priority is given to those who do not accept being Eritrean, the activity which is going on around Afar area.
The area is also dangerous for EPRDF, too, for they previously had had mutual military campaign but without getting results.      .
Among the different efforts to abort Afar activities recently, Ethiopia and Eritrea made a mutual military training.
In the man time last October 30, 1997 Yemen warned Eritrean government to stop the searching for natural gas.
According to Reuter's disclosure, it was the Yemeni foreign ministry that sent the warning to Eritrea.
The Yemeni Socialist Party newspaper, "Altawra" on its pat disclosed that the organization which signed a treaty in search of natural gas was ANGASO, the American National Gas Search Organization.
This organization whose lead quarter is in Huston, got a permission to search natural gas on an area on nine million hectare width, at the moment is digging three wells to start its activities, the Yemeni government warning expressed;
the Eritrean government hasn't said anything about the warning writer by Yemeni government.
It was disclosed that Yemen won't accept the decision given by the International Tribunal on the petition for Hanish Islamds and it is mandatory to prepare for war, conducting agitation under ground;
And internally, in Eritrea at this moment the Eritrean people is expressing its hatred of Mr. Isayas' regime although it doesn't get a forum that enabled it openly express its ideas, fade up with the unsystematic mass arrest of the youth, the bombs the oppositions blast in towns and the country.
Different sectors of the community are leaving the area heading towards Ethiopia and Sudan, which was part of this hatred;
Isayas Afeworki who was tensioned by these repeated crisis, had a mild surgery in the United states and came back to Ethiopia, where he has been in hiding from the public since then, which created various feelings among the public.
Although Mr. Isayas, was believed by all, to have been in hiding due to health problems, it's not known as to what kind of ailment he has?
There are some who said he had a mental sickness.
Mr. Issayas had arranged a forum always on September to answer questions that were said to be raised by the people.
But this year, the questions were raised but they haven't been responded, which exposed him.
Besides, the man is said to have secretly gave abroad for medication.
Some observers said that the right time for Isayas to leave power, by what ever yardsticks, is now, nonetheless.
Others, are questioning that due to his dictatorial characteristics, who's going to substitute his position?
They are worried that in the race of substituting him, could create a greater problem.
Especially, now that many observers fear that the difference that has been forcefully suppressed in districts and religion could burst out.
The fact that there is no opposition that may topple EPLF from its power and could lead the country, is the other problem, as some observers disclosed..
From Tobia November 20, 1997
"NADF Generals Saved Meles"
Yared Tibebu, who played key role in establishing EPDF along with Tamirat Layne who's imprisoned, in the article he wrote from America said, "I'm worried of the fate of Addisu Legesse".
Mr. Yared in his article published on Zega newspaper said that apart from Mr. Addis, the Eritrean Bereket Simon is the target of "narrow" TPLF members, so I'm worried of his fate, too.
In addition, " what makes the issue more complicated is prime minister Miles fears the joint arms of Deputy Prime Minister, Addisu Legesse and his minister of information, Mr. Bereket Simon...W, he said.
As to the situation in the army, "when the TPLF leadership was known to have the danger of faction, Addisu and General Haile Tilahun met NADF army officers said, "As there may be a danger of government coup de tat be vigilant," and the officers made NADF members on guard.
So after the situation was calmed, it was said that the NADF members proudly said, "We showed them, for the second time" scoffing at TPLF officers and soldiers.
This doesn't necessarily mean that Meles Zenawi who became closer to NADF would continue in the same shade.
If he gets a loyal Tigrean national their is no doubt his choice would be that.
For example, even if General Haile helped him out during his time of difficulty, he wouldn't like to give him full charge of Air Force, so he's put him in a secondary position of commander-in-chief."
He said.
From Menilik, January 18, 2002  .
Three Ethiopian Business organizations who are Engaged in the private Sector Got International Award
Three Ethiopian Business Organizations who were engaged in the private sector got international award prepared by International Research, Business and Technological Efforts Expansion advancement Organization.
The organizations that got the twenty-seven annual award that was given in Germany, Frankfurt city last Monday, March 4, 2001 were Bahir Dar Tour and Travel Agency, Africa Insurance Company Share Company and Aleto Lucks Import and Export Organization.
Among the criteria these organizations met were customers' needs, satisfaction and healthy guest entertainment strategy, as well as Information usage, and analysis method are included.  .
Mr. Wondwosen Lakew, Manager of Bahir Dar Tour and Travel Agency, yesterday disclosed that since his tour and travel organization offered the proper entertainment to tourists who came to Ethiopia, the tourists didn't present any complaints to their country's travel agency when they returned.
The manager also disclosed that the other criteria their selection was Fesort Hotel, the hotel which the company at present is building for the purpose of giving services to tourist and its status as international standard..
As the German Voice Radio disclosed the day before yesterday, the three Ethiopian Organizations were chosen in their miscellaneous public services an in the midst of economists they were given the awards, mentioning that they met the requirement of the quality standard of the International Awarding organization and were found excelling their competitors. .
From Addis Zemen March 8, 200.
UNICEF for Eritrea and America for Ethiopia Donated Ai.
As of recently the number of displaced people have increased both from Eritrea and Ethiopia..
Especially those people who run form Eritrean war zones and move to the different centers of shelters in Tigray like Erob, Gulo Mehada, Mereb, Bademe and Sheraro received food and supplies from the America government.
On the other hand it was disclosed that UNICEF is providing broad-range aid to Eritreans who were displaced in the various towns of Eritrea.
Last week alone, UNICEF provided more than half a million Birr aid to the displaced..
It's to be recalled that UNICEF gave medicine and dry food aid for the displaced in Eritrea..
On the Ethiopian side, the enormous aid provided by the American government is still continuing..
Based on its agreement to provide continuous aid for 6 months, their first round aids were given to 150 thousand displaced people..
The aid American government provides in terms of money is reported to reach 70 million dollars.     .
From Fiameta October 21, 1998
Individual who were Caught transporting Heroin were Charged.
ENA – Four foreign nationals who were found transporting dangerous herb called appeared in the Federal Higher Court First criminal bench Court of Session.
These accused individuals who were nationals of Nigeria, Togo and Tanzania were caught and arrested at Bole International Air port last years for they were found having more than 3, 800 gram heroin, the Prosecutor General pointed out..
All herb transporters tried to pal the heroin by swallowing a package that was prepared for this purpose and especially one of them tried to pall swallowing 1520 gram, it disclosed..
According to the prosecutor General's description it was understood that among the accused individuals, three of them were transit passengers who were traveling from India by Ethiopia Airlines.
But the one who possesses the 1,520 grams of Heroin started form Holland and when he reached Bole Airport he was caught, the file of the charge described in detail..
The Federal Higher Court First criminal bench Court of Session that was held on last Friday ordered assignment of translators for the accused and gave an optional date for December 2, 1998 to investigate whether the Court of Session has authority or not to view the case..
From Addis Zemen December 2, 1998
Injured Armies Promised to Fight against EPLF /Shaebia/
The abrupt war that broke out in three fronts in May between Ethiopia and Eritrea was the cause for hundreds of people's death; since the two countries accuse each other of initiating the clashes, border tension has been aggravated, and although both countries agree through U.S. mediation not to conduct air-attacks, CNN reported that there is  clear that fighting on the ground may continue; in the mean time, formerly injured armies have be registered to go to the war-front, the report stated.
The CNN reporter who broadcasted this news from Adigrat on June 23 stated that the civilian-targeted air bombing by Eritrea took the lives of 48 civilians, killed hundreds of elderly people and injured ex-combatants, and this filled them with rage and initiated their patriotic feeling, register and go to the war again.
A government official form Adigrat district by the name Andualem pointed out that out of the 500 volunteers registered, only 200 of them were not granted permission for they didn't qualify, while the remaining were allowed to join, the report stated.
Injured ex-combatants with mental impairment and those in wheel chairs also asked to be granted permission to defend their countries in the battlefield, but since most of them didn't qualify, permission was not granted, and hence, become sad, the report added.
In Tigray, many considered it as their own war for they felt as if their friends deserted them.
CNN reporter quoting officials told that pride in the nation-nationality has been strengthening and thousands of ex-combatants have voluntarily joined, took a second time training and went to the front.
"I've never expected to fight again," said Gebre Amlak, filled with anger, who lost his left leg in the fight that took place in 1988, and he continued, "but now I'll fight because this situation calls for prompt action and I'm prepared to give not only my right leg, but my life, too," CNN reporter concluded quoting an ex-combatant..
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
Sudanese and Djibouti Leaders passed a Message of Condolenc.
Oumer Hassen Albeshir, Sudan Republic President and the country's Defense Minister Major General Bakri Hassen Salih expressed their deep sympathy on the death of Mr. Kinfe Gebremedhin..
In the message President Hassen Albeshir for Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and Major General Bakri for Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Tefera Walwa Sent, they expressed that they heard Mr. Kinfe's death with great shock.
In a condolence message the president and the defense minister sent, they reminded that Mr. Kinfe contributed greatly with regards to establishing security and peace in the two sisterly countries..
In the commiseration the Sudan President and minister of Defense individually offered, they expressed their sympathy Mr. Kinfe's family and fiends as well as to all Ethiopians over the death of General Manager of Authority for security, Immigration and Refugee Affairs.     .
Moreover, Djibouti's president Ismael Omar Gele expressed his deep sympathy to Prime Minister Meles Zenawi over the death of Mr. Kinfe..
President Ismael in his commiseration expressed that he heard the sad news of assassination of Mr. Kinfe who was General Manager of Authority for Security, Immigration and Refugee Affairs..
The assassination of Betrayal on Mr. Kinfe who was a great servant of Ethiopian government, and whom he shared great friendship with, has been a shock to Djibouti's President, Foreign Affairs Ministry disclosed.
The president expressed that with his efficiency and loyalty, Mr. Kinfe would be greatly missed, the president expressed..
President Ismael disclosed that whoever knew Mr. Kinfe who was always generously willing to serve; his readiness and good behavior would like him and give him respect.
The president of Djibouti, in his message, said he would share the Sorrow with his family and his close relatives..
The message president Ismael sent to Prime Minister, Meles expressing his sorrow over the death of Mr. Kinfe, General Manager of Security, Immigration and Refugee Affairs, was broadcasted in Djibouti's mass media..
From Addis Zemen May 15, 2001    .
There have been obstacles not to teach lessons to children in their mother tongue
The decision to teach Non-Oromo children, who live in zones of Oromia regional administration in their native languages, Amharic, as from 1998 academic year onwards have faced obstacles by administrative and educational departments in Debrezeit, Nazareth, and eastern Harerghe, it was disclosed;
This international decree which the United Nations passed on and which the Ethiopian Federal Democratic Republic government also ratified it in its constitution, the authorities didn't want to implement it disallowing the borrowing of texts written in Amharic language, warning teachers not to teach, they are just wasting the children's golden time, according to the reports that reached us;
In 12 primary & junior secondary schools that are found in eastern shoa zone, Nazareth Town, the hidden intrigue done on children of Amharic speakers has become the worst of all, the sources mentioned, the situation that is seen in the town seems to have the inclination to suppress students who have other native languages learn in one Language;
The details of the intrigue done on the children are that attempting to teach them with a language they don't speak as a mother tongue before, with a Latin letter, with teachers who didn't take training, unwillingly through worry and great difficulty, just wasting the children's golden time, the sources disclosed;
Even if in 1997 through a lot of efforts made by parents, and through so many ups and downs, they have made higher officials decide that children learn with their native language, the zonal education department and on the administrative sides this was made not practical, they even started to consider it political upon those individuals who follow these and openly or indirectly problems were made to occur on them, it was disclosed;
At the end of the same year in the schools children who were below 18 years were made to choose the language they would like to learn the coming year, among whom the parents of 1187 chosen Amharic while 542 preferred to learn through Oromifa with Latin alphabets, although this was not made practical, the sources recalled.
Today, it is not with the language the parents chose for their kinds that they learn, but students are assigned at any school where the authorities chose for them, without the consent of parents.
Without making any preparations for the lesson by the pertinent zonal education department officials, the 1998 academic year has started;
In Nazareth No.3 primary and junior secondary school, Mr. Zewdu Debela, the principal of the school at the beginning of the school gathered the school teachers told them that except fourth and eight grade, there' wasn't any teaching books so teachers getting in to other classes have no other work except controlling the students and warned them not to use the former books written in Amharic and forbade the store keeper, to lend these books;
In this way, the children, who are the citizens that would be replacing today' generation, their early youth time is wasted in futility; while teachers, instead of producing productive citizens, are making them unwillingly, burdens of a country, the sources disclosed;
In the mean time, parents in Ada Liben district, Debrezeit town and county-loving elderly people appealed to higher authorities and similarly got acceptance, but the implementing bodies are striving to avert the situation, the report which reached us indicated;
In a meeting held in Debrezeit town on September 4, 1997 at the Hall of Emperor Lebnedengel School, teachers of Oromifa, parents board members an selected Oromo nationals who were expected to protest the proposed idea, participated but this intrigue was exposed, according to the report, the administrative and education bureau officials warned that those who learned in Amharic wouldn't get jobs;
Out of the decree of the United Nations and the constitution that the government approved, saying that children of six and eight should decide the language they would be learning and making them sign was just wrong, said the report, but due to the people's cautious and active participation in the meeting, after a long and tiresome dispute and argument it was decided that parents and children should choose the language, though not without some conspiracy, a fruit was gotten at last, it disclosed;
Although the result was as shown in the table, when parents went to register their children, they told them, "We don't have places for Amharic speakers.
We have places only for Oromia speakers.
We don't have books.
If you don't learn in the Oromifa language, you wouldn't get work ground here.
Go, transfer to another school.
Every precedence to Oromifa, etc...
"By saying such annoying things they made sure that parents become furious, the report disclosed;
The oromifa language that has been given from 1st – 6th grade up to now, is told to be given to higher grades starting from 7th grade from this year on wards in different districts and towns of eastern Harerge, which made many non-Oromo speakers to leave their education, our eastern Ethiopia reporter disclosed; although parents who have the financial capability were able to resolve the problem by sending their kinds to Amharic-speaking schools, parents who have poor, small and meager income had no choice, so they either forced their kinds to learn with the language they don't know or keep them to home, the reporter disclosed quoting the parents;    .
Narrow-racist officials and teachers who strive to chip away at the rights these parents and country-loving citizens, who followed the case up to the end and after many ups and downs, have then respected, should be exposed, reminded some sympathizer citizens and pointed out that parents should not lose hope due to the confusion that was created;
The people and government should struggle this hidden and obvious intrigue enacted upon a generation asked the parents and especially requested the central government and the Oromia Regional Administration which passed on the decision, to take immediate measure.      .
From Tobia November 13, 1997
Preparation is Underway to Pass an Aviation La.
(ENA): In order to enable Ethiopian Investors (to) embark on air transport services, a law that makes this done is in preparation, the Civil Aviation authority disclosed..
The authority disclosed that the aviation law which is to be formulated would put in place legislative decree that enable ownership of airplane, establishment of air ports with rules and regulations they abide by, and how to operate air transport business.
The authority which explains that those who are going to embark on this career as well as those who hare already been giving services need to have law and regulation that they should follow; it is also disclosed that organizing the documents such as separate proclamations, regulations and instructions that are under operation in line with the practical situation of the country and common global practice would have great benefit for the activities of the sector..
Besides, in order to efficiently control and enforce strong punishment resolution upon airplane hijacking, including air brigandage and other different crimes, the presence of the law is mandatory.                        .
According to the statement of the authority, it would help to integrate national and international organizations and bear fruit vis-à-vis searching air plane and rescuing it as well as saving lives and properties at the airport.
The law apart from greatly assisting the air transport business not to have chaotic operating system, it would also keep its service and economic security intact, and it's disclosed. .
While there has not been serious difficulty so far not having aviation rules in Ethiopia, occasional problems were there vis-à-vis search of air plane and rescuing, air security and others.     .
From Addis Zemen August 13, 1997
Editorial
The Multiplicity of Statement Bring About Nothin.
It's known that the All Amhara People's Organization (AAPO) was an organization that was established among the first ones and it had many members in Addis Ababa and at the level of regions.
Apart form this it drew many Ethiopian people through its activities during the first years of its establishment.
The existence of the organization became questionable after its president the late professor Asrat was put behind bars.
After that let alone to continue its struggle with a unified aim and spirit, its members fell apart and fail to do their job and due to this crippled the organization.
Not only did a lot of central committee members go out from the organization, but also youth associations were also dismantled in some places.
The oppositions accused on their part that it's the first deputy president General Nekatebeb who's responsible for this.
On the other hand, the statement recently given by AAPO blamed the oppositions.
We would like to remind that since the multiplicity of statements bring about nothing, in order to maintain the existence of the organization and make its previous strengthened activities continue successfully, it's imperative and have no other resolve to mistakes, negotiate and with a tool of forbearance uniting for a true cause.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
The Memory of the Brutally Killed Ascetic Fekade Selassie is to be observed tomorro.
The memory of ascetic Fekade Selassie who was killed in cold blood in St. Stephen church on January 9, 1998, is to be colorfully observed tomorrow by Ethiopians both in the country and overseas..
Ascetic Fekade Selassie who was brutally killed by gun shots on Thursday January 9, 1998 and whose funeral rite was conducted on the fourth day at St. Michael church, where the sanctuary of clemency turned out for him a wrath of God, it is exactly 2 years tomorrow since he was inhumanly killed at the presence of the Ark of he Tabernacle as well as religious leaders..
Since he passed away, the Christian congregation has never failed to show its fellowship in religious processions such as prayer for the dead on the third day, up to the annual memorial day; tomorrow, that is January 9, 1999 there will be prayer for the dead at St. Michael church, where as after mass, luncheon will be served for the disabled; Ethiopian abroad, too are said to colorfully observe the 2nd year memorial..
Regarding the prayer for the dead and the luncheon for the program, the congregation has started its preparation long ago, sources disclosed; while all the preparations have been completed in the country, money was sent from abroad for buying oxen, sources indicated..
Similar kind of observance is going to take place overseas, the sources pointed out..
At the time of his death, attempts had been done not to give him a burial place, yet his funeral ceremony finally took place at St. Michael church were it is believed to have no administrative control by the patriarch and have different kind of fellowship; however a statue hasn't been erected as yet due to some problems, but now every preparation is being completed, internal sources explained.
It's to be recalled that due to the assassination of the ascetic, members of ‘Associations of Saints' have still been attending court proceedings.        .
From Fiameta January 8, 1999
Tigray and TPLF – The Political Orbit.
The Time is approaching for the Leadership and Comrades to Evaluate Themselves
Reportage (3)
Situations indicate that the time is nearing for evaluating the role played and the real meaning of the sacrifices that leadership and comrades of TPLF paid in the context to the many years relation they have had with EPLF, EPLF's influence on Ethiopian politics and, in general, the feeling it left on Ethiopia, especially on the people of Tigray.
The third reportage focuses on the issues of the region and views the implication of the relation ship of the two regions.
Whenever Tigray is mentioned her relations with Eritrea can ever be neglected.
The relationship doesn't only emanate from it geographical position but the relations the two parties have had so far.
The bases of their relations were many, but the main ones are Mr. Isayas and Mr. Meles.
The political analysts who evaluate the content of the relationship both from the point of view of Eritrea as well as from Ethiopian perspective, say that both sides used to cooperatively fight the military junta, and after they held power in Addis Ababa and Asmara, they started putting oppositions behind bars and are playing a role in delaying the case of Eritreans living in Addis Ababa not to get resolve.
In a response Mr. Meles gave to one Eritrean newspaper, said, "Our relationship in reality is beyond confederation" while Mr. Isayas stated in Asar, A magazine written in Tigregna language, "Our borders would be meaningless after some time," the message was not obscure.
The Eritrean – Tigrean conferences being conducted time and again in Asmara and Makale, the fact that Ethiopian Civil code is being translated from Amharic to Tigregna, Tigray Development Association covering the cost, the fact that the number of Eritreans officials in Addis Ababa being numerous, the fact that Tigreans could use the Metsewa port, Eritrean consulate being in Tigray and Tigrigna becoming the language of work, all could boil down to proofs for the conception of the would-be established " Tigrean Tigrign" government, it is widely talked over. .
The fact that a huge dam that was being constructed at Tekeze river, twice that of Melka Wakena being under construction is to be seen in relation to this.
Its practicability, however, could incite civil war between the Eritrean lowlanders and highlanders.
The said main conspirators of this plot, Mr. Woldeab Woldemariam, at one time was repeatedly injured and sent out of the country, it was recalled.
With regards to Tigray, except to Mr.  Meles and his few followers, it is expected that it has no special meaning to remaining people of Tigray other than the one held by Ethiopian people.
It won't be acceptable for Tigrean people, too.
The two leaders (Meles and Isayas) are attempting to cover up their in tensions in the pretext of horn of Africa, the situation is being exposed, the opposition is also widening, so they're too worried.
It has been seven years since Eritrea seceded.
Before the secession was official among the controversial issues most of them are still not resolved.
The sides parts of the community who are worried about the relationships that are not properly designed, hold their own outlook; TPLF army is highly involved in this issues.
Because not only willingly but even while fighting against it, it's still allowing Eritrea to secede, so now is looking back to its role..
Although Eritrea is said to demarcate her border and left, there are some agreements which were made by the two sides (Ethiopia and Eritrea) and are not clear to the army or the people, and now that Eritrea is in confrontation due to the mutual agreement the two countries have, a confrontation which the army doesn't like;
Rather than returning its, favor for what has been done to it, EPLF army especially in the borderlines with Tigray, attempting to rise in revolt and wage an a attack made TPLF troops not only furious, but pushed it to put forward questions on the issue to its superior officials, the analysts of the situation say.
TPLF leadership don't have unanimous standpoint in relation to the relationship between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
One side says, "Since we joined EPLF and fought the rest of the Ethiopian people and become victorious, today also we should continue standing with Eritrea."
The said cause which it mentioned is not simply taken from history, it is still trying to suppress the oppositions that are seen at the moment, it prefers to cooperatively work with Eritrea, especially to win over ARDUF which is operating around the two borders and which considers the Afar as belonging to Ethiopia.
In order to strengthen this friendship, EPLF has to be made beneficiary from Ethiopian wealth without any condition; allowing Eritrea to us Ethiopian money in Eritrea for exchange (for the last six years); building a modern condominium for Eritrean consulate office in Tigray; belittling the activity that's going to settle Eritreans' case so that it's not on the public talk, has been functional as a strategy for work relations.
This is not alone..
The team in its interest to elongate EPLF's life span, it has repeatedly put behind bars and sent them out from the country those organizations which oppose EPLF.
However, later the outlook of this side has become defeated and Eritrean's issue has become out of control, these are situations that indicate this..
The other TPLF leadership on its side say, "After we cooperatively fought defeated the military junta, we don't have a remaining mutual agenda."
This side says "we should see Eritrea as a neighboring country while the rest of the Ethiopian people should be seen as Ethiopian..
Eritreans living in Ethiopia, too, on their own free decision could live as Ethiopians or neighboring country nationals..
When the situation at present is evaluated it seems that this outlook is getting acceptance.
The fact that now and them the controlling mechanism conducted in the toll stations in border lines of Eritrea and Ethiopia becoming strengthened, the fact that Eritrean nationals living in Tigray were said to forcefully change their properties in to money, the fact that Ethiopian identity card was forbidden to Eritreans living in Makale and its surroundings, are all to be viewed in this perspective..
These sides who are forced to hold various outlooks are said to be differentiated as these who previously joined the EPLF, those who took their primary level military and political training and even took part in the fighting for a short time and returned to Tigray, and those who directly went to the deserts of Tigray.
Ethiopian and Eritrean Ministers' Mutual Commission annually met in August and signed agreements which were not clear..
Tamerat Layne who used to lead the Commission on Ethiopian side up to last year was ousted from his positions, but then after the meeting discontinued.
This situation amplifies the situation of Mr. Tamerat Layne who was said to be ousted from his post, due to corruption, was in actual facts may have been ousted due to the stand point he took on Eritrea, it is said.
The outlook of Tigrean people, too, is said to have been divided on this issue.
Here, it would be appropriate to mention the complaints Tigreans who live in Addis Ababa raise.
Most of them say,... "If Eritrea claims to be a free country, her citizens, too should be considered foreigners, here..
"Why do they take our work in the government, in business and in renting houses, in the name of Tigrean Speaker?
"They ask.
Others looking in to it deeply say that it has to be amended not from temporary benefits point of view, but from the perspective of putting the situation of citizens in to order through legislation.
At this time, the difference in outlook on this issue between Tigreans who live in Addis Ababa and TPLF has become alarmingly increasing..
Except Tigrean nationals the Addis Ababa dwellers don't raise questions about the illegal relationship of Eritrea and Ethiopia.
The reason for this is the fact that what they have raised earlier in different forms didn't get acceptance..
TPLF listens to people's voice not willingly but when it's obliged to do so, so let it wait till then.
But there are those who attempted to make TPLF accountable for all the difficult situations created in the country, in general.
However, the suggestion of many is that there should be a demarcation between the outlook of TPLF and that of the people of Tigray.
The situation of Eritreans living in Ethiopia seems to be complicated.
Some of them were of anti-unity stand and supporters of EPLF since the time the organization was in the bush..
They didn't realize that the secession of Eritrea means the end of their being Ethiopian.
There were many who gave their support to Eritrea during the time of referendum.
After the independence most of them went to Asmara and wanted to construct a house, establish an organization, wanted to work in their profession, etc and asked the government, but "where ware you during the struggle?
..." was the question they were confronted with and returned shamefully.
Those who haven't contributed to EPLF form their wealth and who stood for unity were take and arrested on the morrow of independence.
As a result, the feelings of the Eritreans, too, were changed.
They started retreating.
At this time, those who have communication with the Eritrean embassy in Addis Ababa are few; those who used to say "we are foreigners" to Ethiopians as a mockery have now started asking their friends for forgiveness.
Besides they are now saying "Let alone being alive, even our corpse doesn't go to Eritrea," they said.
The money they got selling their properties have now been reinvesting it to establish organizations.
Apart from working silently, it's said that they have become the first to pay government taxes.
When most of them speak of their future fate, "...the secession of Eritrea from Ethiopia is intended for the benefit of EPLF, and they don't get any benefit out of it so, we wish if there's some one who could avert he secession,..." they are saying; the other thing that should be seen is the relationship of the two organizations.
TPLF and EPLF that replaced the military junta in Addis Ababa and held power in Addis Ababa and Asmara, though seems to they have had good relationship the growing difference is something that has become widely talked about.
Sides who are calmly following the situation are saying that even from the outset the relationship was based on Meles Zenawi and Isayas Afework is personal and blood ties but it didn't have reliable basis.  .
Even if there's a dream of unity between Tigray and Eritrea in the future, it would be the unity of the two people but not the rest, the sources disclosed.
They underscore the strong feeling the people of Tigray have for its Ethiopian ness.
While the two individuals have been able to cover up the differences us yet, the people of the two regions have, apart from defaming one another, transformed in to military clashes since recently, internal sources pointed out..
"Indian Ocean Newsletter" no.780 under the title "...The difference that has started Widening" presented a wide report with regard to this issue.
The newspaper mentioned that since the difference came as a result of deviation of direction, it would rather widen but not tapered off.   .
Especially, two weeks ago, since the temporary clashes between EPLF and TPLF soldiers surfaced, and for the time being unknown number of casualties (look at the main news) worry and concern reigns in Asmara and Makale towns, it's disclosed.
TPLF government is agitating the people underground against TPLF..
Including those who have been dismissed from EPLF army for various reasons for the last six years, there's a call for everyone who has in one way or another experience with guns. .
The area which the clashes took place, shire on the side of Tigray and Seraye, Gash and Setit districts on the side of Eritrea are found in one direction.
The second area is the connecting zone of Agame district, Afar and Eritrean Danakel district.
The obvious reason mentioned for this clash is border controversy.
The gun fire exchange that was heard especially around Danakil's area started due to a fertile land around a river.
The reason for the aggravation of the situation at Shire occurred while the EPLF was moving to now the grains it had planted, found resistance by TPLF soldiers, reports form western Tigray zone uncovered.
In the mean time, so as to give different name to the clash and to calm down the squabble, the TPLF army that attacked the EPLF army were said as if they had been those ex-TPLF soldiers who separated itself from the leadership.
Meles and Isayas whom the situation was beyond their control, met secretly in Makale and Asmara.
The main agenda of their meeting was said to discuss ways to loosen the tension.
But according to other observers' belief, the main agenda of the meeting was Mr. Isayas brought an assignment form America with regards to Sudan, they said..
According to these observers, the cause to aggravate the conflict between TPLF and EPLF was not only the border tension but also Ethiopia's softening relationship with Sudan, Behind EPLF.
The cause for not conducting the annual Ethiopian and Eritrean Ministers' meeting for the last four years what was led by Tamerat Layne on Ethiopian side, was the widening of their differences, it was told..
As the differences widen, the support of the people for the two leaders has reduced.     .
Although the Eritrean people have great hatred on Mr. Isayas, it couldn't bring out its protest openly due to the security and controlling mechanism.
On Ethiopian side, especially around the people of Tigray and TPLF, Meles' activities so far as well as his blood tie and friendship with Isayas couldn't make him maintain Ethiopia's benefits, so he should be evaluated, this rumor is spreading.
Moreover, there's a feeling that his organization and the responsibility he held in government needs another person, it was said.
In general, there are many who say that the time has approached when the TPLF leadership and comrades who have been sacrificing including their lives, to evaluate themselves and take a stand together with the people of Tigray and generally with the interest of Ethiopians.
From Tobia October 16, 1997
Ambassador Sahnun Pressing Eritrea to Accept the Peace Plan.
Since United Nations has great concern and fear that the tension between Ethiopia and Eritrea may develop as an all-out war, the secretary General Kofi Annan sent his special envoy to the region last Tuesday and discussed with Eritrea's President Isayas Afeworki, BBC radio reported..
It is to be recalled that the Eritrean government had, in principle, accepted the peace plans proposed by the organization, but put forward questions for further details..
Even though OAU has unwaveringly responded for the questions raised by Eritrea, the Eritrean leadership is still staggering not to accept the peace plans..
The envoy sent by the United Nations secretary led by Ambassador Mohammed Sahnuh went to the region in order to enable the Eritrean government accept the peace plans as promptly, it is stated.
After this last effort, if Eritrea didn't accept the peace plans, United Nations is expected to take sanction measures. .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
780 Ethiopians Returned to their Country from Sudan
780 Ethiopians who used to live in Sudan as immigrants returned to their country, the Amhara Rehabilitation Development Organization (ARDO) disclosed.
Mr. Mengesha Jatu, Head of the Gondar Immigrants coordination disclosed that the 17th round returnees who came to Gondar via Metema stayed for ten years in Khartoum.
After having stayed for two days, the returnees were given a nine month full-time provision and one thousand ninety Birr for building their financial capacity and would be seen off to their respective regions, the head stated..
ARDO cooperating with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees have been able to return to their country 9, 910 refugees including these ones, he explained and up to the coming the beginning of April, more than 4, 090 Ethiopians would return to their country.
From Addis Zemen March 1, 200.
Notes from Awasa Prison!
(From Dawit Kebede.
March 23
Weeks have passed since a report about the South Ethiopia President's abduction reached our office.
After many meetings and arguments I reached a decision to publish the news..
But before that I called in the president's office..
It was not possible to investigate the situation..
When we called in to some people in Awasa to ask about the abduction, they told us that years have passed since they heard the news years on here say level..
We couldn't go beyond this to investigate the matter..
The news was allowed to be published..
March 24
As soon as the news title "The President had his people abduct a 17 year old girl for him was written on the monitor of the computer, the computer specialist turned his face and gazed at me.
Then, smiling, he put forward his hand.
He said, "OK, good bye" and we shook hands.
After that the details of the report were written..
Tomorrow it will be available for the public..
March 25
After an hour of the news of the president's abduction, the news paper disappeared from the market.
More telephone messages than in the ordinary days started pouring to the office..
While this was going on, a preparation was underway in Awassa town, southern Ethiopia, to send me to prison.
It was then that armed forces were sent to my place to put me behind bars in Awasa prisons..
...The police armed forces at Awasa air port were assigned to keep an eye on Awasa prison..
One division army started patrolling the prison in shifts..
Before he was arrested in this prison, the writer of this news had undergone suffering in Addis Ababa.
Central government and Addis Ababa police were desperately looking for him..
It was in the midst of all these that Southern armed forces conducted a successful abduction.
The story goes like this..
Thursday April 2/98
Suddenly a telephone called..
It was From Addis Ababa Police commission Office..
I was told to reach the police station today..
As soon as I told him I couldn't come with such a hurry notice but I could reach there the next week, the call turned off..
After an hour the telephone rang..
It was from the Federal Central Police..
It was the lieutenant..
He have me a hard and fast order to reach there without wasting time..
Since you told me the charges I was accused of were many,...and since I can't bring bail for all these charges today, I asked him if I could go at another time..
But after the lieutenant insistently told me that I should come immediately and report and only after that I would call my guarantor, the telephone hang.
And I started my immediate journey; to the Central Police..
When I reached there they were in a meeting..
I had to stay for more than 30 minutes and I did.
Later I was given an investigator police and gave my words..
However, unlike the lieutenant's promise, I was obliged to go bail at least calling one guarantor, and give fingerprints..
Lastly, the head of the Central Police Force gave an order on the telephone that I should come to his office..
Starting from around the Central Police up to piazza area I met many journalists.
They were pleased to see me out of the station peacefully..
We stayed together until its dusk.
When I went home, having departed from my friends, in the moon light the conversation I had with top official was reverberating.
"If you must disappear you will..." Even if I said to him "you can't" I was shocked..
Of course, if I must die, I will.  However, I can't die a cowardly death..
When I got home, I understood that situations were different..
I was told that as soon as my leg stepped out, the police came home and ransacked my house.
How could it be? The integration and coordination became a puzzle to me for a while..
Friday April 3
I didn't get time to get into my office..
I was with the two Italian ladies in the evening..
My friend, the artist, was with me.
I introduced them, we spent the evening together..
I saw people holding two torches coming in front of me..
They came closer to me and told me the whole things..
And today the area was surrounded by police cars, armed people and civilians and I was being looked for..
They got in to the house again and ransacked ..
After I heard that I couldn't sleep in the night..
Next I called overseas..
I told them about what's happening and departed..
Having prepared for the next Wednesday last edition, I took some rest.
Saturday April 4
The night hasn't yet given way to the day..
When I went out of my house and looked around, I saw strange civilians in the area..
What I feared happened..
After 5 minutes they controlled me with a force I couldn't tell at present..
They took me with a green car that says "police 196" and drove fast.
This one was a search or kidnap group that was sent from southern Ethiopia..
Although the act was not appropriate, the task of kidnapping was conducted and continued our way to the capital of southern Ethiopia, Awasa..
My biological father was with me and the police officers until shashemene town..
But we didn't go together from shashemene onwards..
We have few minutes remaining before reaching Awasa, a city which is situated 275 kilometers from Addis Ababa.
The journey which we stated in the morning was completed after going through the Addis Ababa and Oromia regions then to black water..
This Black Water is a natural border line that separates Oromia from Southern region..
While the water is naturally black, reflection of light of the sun set of the water given the river a resemblance of blood color.
A flowing black river resembling - - black blood..
When we reached Awasa crossing black river, the police were welcomed..
The southern Ethiopia Justice Office Head Mr. Zerihun came to me adjourning his meeting..
He is young..
But you can read shrewdness in his eyes..
He told me about all the situations..
Especially he's concerned about the air line who was abducted by the president of southern Region, that's why I was abducted (?) from Addis Ababa; although the committed act was unjustified, there was nothing I could do, except being cautioned. .
Before I was arrested in the prison which is found in the police department, I saw people whose hands were tied in chains behind bars and they also saw me entering my room..
Two policemen were arrested in this prison, gave me a welcoming reception. .
But when the Justice Berau Head came again to the cell where I was put, the two policemen went out, we talked about the reasons I was arrested, and related issues..
Where we can agree, we agreed..
But with the rest leave alone to agree ... what I said to him didn't give him sense; what he said to me didn't give me sense..
(In the Evening) I ate dinner with the police officers..
The two police officers had high positions in southern Ethiopia, but later were transferred to some other work, until they were called for question and put behind bars..
I was aware of the people and the town through these police officers..
I was forced to accept imprisonment in southern Ethiopia..
I was told in black and white that unless you told us about the abduction of the president's girl or the person who told you other secrets, we won't release, you we won't leave you.
And I told them I won't be cooperative..
They can't get (what they went) through polite questioning, leave alone through forceful means..
It was a question unheard of and I thought how dare he asked me like this..
Sunday April 5/98
The head of justice Bureau came Sunday morning and started the usual tedious nag..
He shouted at me I talked back to him...after that he left..
After he left the each prisoner as well as the shift worker was talking; they all were talking.
Fortunately, he wouldn't hear to all of these and hence, he is lucky..
Apart from being a day for cleaning today families will come..
Nobody could come from Addis Ababa to visit me..
I was not allowed to talk to my brother-in-low who came from a town few kilometers far from Awasa.
It was only later that I knew I was not allowed to meet any visitor..
The order was given by the young head of Justice Bureau, Zerihun..
Monday April 6
I was called to come to Zerihun's office..
It was a big spacious room the floor of which was covered by a flower-paint rug..
He didn't take up an issue out of the ordinary..
Yet, his present speech was not that of a friend, but of a boss or in authority and, therefore it was mixed with anger and yell..
"Do you say you are a journalist?" he asked me.
"You too claim you're a man of justice and yet put me behind bars without any change" he said.
And so on.
You wrote in your tabloid a person was killed, but where did you see this happened?" asked in vexation..
"To show you evidence I won't take you farther; it would be sufficient to mention a prisoner in chain whom you arrested after you killed his father and mother in this jail," I said, we argued..
For long.
While I couldn't express the whole argument I had with him for hours, he finally allowed me to call to my lawyer counselor in Addis Ababa..
When I went out from his office he gave an order to the police..
That I should stay alone in the cell, and to move the officers to another place..
And it was so as he said.
I remained alone..
In the afternoon they took me to the court..
This was no confusion and queue..
Before I was given another appointment date, I had said what I needed to say to the judge.
How I had been kidnapped and arrived we from Addis Ababa, and about the criminal charges filed against me, how through the office of Prosecutor General, I gave my words to the Addis Ababa Central Police Office and how I went out on bail..
I told him that I cannot be accused twice with one charge, give my words and calling a guarantor twice was out of the legal enactment, and hence, I wouldn't cooperate..
Nevertheless, the court ordered me to appear on April 13 after completion of the investigation. .
I was taken to the police after Department I had gone out from the court..
There I talked with the deputy police commissioner about my case..
At the end of our discussion, he promised according to my request that no one should come to me, and even if one comes to me one is not allowed to enter my class for which I considered it as a peace of mind..
Yet, my staying behind bars has become inevitable..
When the sun was about to set, Head of Justice Bureau came..
Including what I had said to the court, I told him many things..
I told him filled with fury with arrest and persecution their won't yield any result, and I wouldn't cooperate with illegal enactment and he wouldn't escape from being accountable in the future.
Together with my rage, the day couldn't make me feel OK. .
But at night I saw a dream filled with hope..
Since long ago whenever I saw, that in my dream, I missed a train or airplane or car, the plan I had set out then wouldn't be successful; it's assign of a bad omen.   .
Today at night I saw that there was something terrible happening in Addis, and I was in search of a taxi; one taxi came filled up to the brim with people. .
After I ran some distance, the taxi stopped and I boarded in with difficulty..
Therefore, I assumed the coming days to be bright and full of hope..
Many People do not have strong faith in dreams and the like..
However, it is something important to see good dreams in a prison where that there's no hope..
Tuesday April 7
Today it's Id-Al Adha (Arafa) for Muslims and Hosana for Christians. .
And a day of hope for me..
When the sun was about to set, I was looking out of the window from my prison cell..
Excepting the trees, the cars and different people that move here and these, have special meaning for me..
To be a prisoner and stay out of freedom and moving freely are two different things..
And, therefore, the life beyond prison is tempting..
While I was looking outside the prison all the usual car of the head of the office came..
The prisoner who was breathing the outside air freely entered his room with a mixed condition of stability and hurry..
Because the head came.
Closing the door which was ajar, I went to my window waiting for the head of the office that was coming from afar..
After exchanged greetings with the head we kept quiet for a certain time..
"What's up?" I said breaking the ice. .
"Nothing.".
"How about you, didn't you charge your mind?"
"No, I didn't"
"Don't you tell who handover you this secret?"
"First of all the press law doesn't oblige me to tell the source of the news even to the court leave alone to the police..
And you don't get any thing by putting behind bars."
"How?"
"You'd rather not touch the untouchable and aggravate the issue..
When you dig a hole for me I'd the same for you for I'm also human..
You are accountable for improperly using your authority.
If that was not the case I wouldn't get in to the ditch alone. .
Just know this..
I said..
I was right..
After he explained to me there was no pitch that was dug, he brought up those discouraging words.
"Then you won't fly and go like a bird..
Until you reveal the secrets, you'll remain behind bars, up to the time you're fed up..
He said to me..
Since the conversation started to make me laugh, I took it into some kind of joke.
"Hey listen!" I said.
"OK?"
"Let's see it differently..
For instance, I wrote too that the crime was committed by the president and his followers..
This as it is as a professional lawyer why don't you ask them to be requested?" I asked..
I couldn't see his facial expression for my eyes traveled to the sun set while I was talking to him.
But I presume he was looking in to my eyes..
After having talked good and bad, he said "I appreciate your courage"; said out of sarcasm or not, I suspected that he had a shift of attitude..
Yet, he was annoying..
Mentioning about the tabloids that came out with issues pertaining to me these days, he said "We will see the Addis Ababa journalists take you out from here coming by helicopter landing by parachute..
It was usual him to annoy me like that..
Wednesday April 8
I was called and entered the lead of the bureau's office..
He and I read that day's newspapers that wrote about news related to me in that office..
He seemed to have realized that his act of touching the untouchables have now made situations worse..
"Is there any related news?" he asked me.
"The president at first had his girl abducted, now had a journalist abducted" I said to him.
My response seemed to have vexed him as well as made him laugh..
The officers who were at first with me were called but I didn't know what they were told ... whether it was from "shying away" or some other reasons they attempted not to be seen with or talking to me..
The situation was funny..
They told me with fear and jokingly that they could be persecuted if they were seen together with me, let alone conversing.
Even exchanging greeting was not possible.
I don't think they saw even the title of the newspaper which I brought that day let alone reading the news..
God knows what they did to them to have been fearful..
In the evening, the over-hasty security guards (comrades) took the newspaper from me and they read about my imprisonment there, and when they realized that they were reading politics, they stood dried like lot's wife..
That same night an urgent call was made to them and underwent evaluation or criticism..
I could hear from my room the criticism leveled at even those guards whom I gave coffee from the thermos bottle..
Especially they were harshly criticizing him..
"You never know what unusual measures would be taken against you for doing so!" They told him.
I started laughing alone..
And indeed, no one knows what kind of strange measures would be taken against him..
Thursday: - I was accompanied to wash my face..
The comrades used to talk to me freely when we were alone like that moment..
Today Afternoon
I had to negotiate about so many issues..
The first was to publish ruling out the previous news; it would be inevitable to restrain my self from mentioning the other issues.
In the evening, security guards (comrades) from another shift unaware of what it dealt with said, "let's see the newspaper" and start reading, but suddenly didn't know where to put it back..
Among them who read the newspaper un knowingly was the head of the evaluation or criticism..
When he knew it was a political newspaper, he tells like an electric shock..
Either he threw it away or put it somewhere slowly, gazing at people around him as to whether they saw him..
However, they didn't forgive him..
They were arguing in the night..
I started laughing thinking about their situation..
No one knows what kind of strange measures would be taken against him, too..
That day evening
I saw a friend of mine who's abroad..
We were laughing like our olden days, happened to me after I came to the South..
Both of us have one principle of life..
It says "There are as many tests in life..
But look at the greener side of the test, not the negative ones..
This is what we say to each other whenever we're in the midst of trouble..
And hence, now, I started entertaining looking at funny side of life..
Until I go out of this prison there would be some things I could laugh at..
My abduction was by itself very amazing, while I was troubled about the girl's abduction..
(Although there was a lot to be said, I don't have papers to write on..
It would be great if this paper sees publication; I would have liked to talk longer had this been considered sinful and aggravated my imprisonment.).
From Fiameta April 29, 1998
Kefagn Ethiopian Patriot's Front Held a Meeting in Stockholm
Ethiopians living in Sweden and the surrounding areas (Nordic countries) held a meeting in Stockholm (Sweden) on September, 1997.
In this meeting where from about 150-250 Ethiopians participate, the invited guest was head of the front's foreign affairs, Dr. Andualem Mulaw.
Dr. Andualem's speech focused on the ongoing destructive mission in Ethiopia, that is, the ruling party which brought itself to power through Kalashnikov is widening its destructive policies from one end to the other part of the country, and was detailing these destructions, it was possible to know from the report the rep of the front sent us from Sweden.
In the meeting, messages that were sent from the reps of the army of the front and leadership members to their fellow country people living abroad were read.
Ethiopians, who have been present in the meeting having unshakable faith in Ethiopia's existence, raised several questions and presented suggestions, where the head of the foreign affairs gave proper explanation and responses, the report pointed out.
In the report it was disclosed that Kefagn Ethiopian Army members who are in armed struggle in the country are discharging their duties as Ethiopian in the county spreading every where without restricted in space, in the north in Tigray, Gondar, Gojam, Shoa, Wollo, Bale, Arsi and Harerghe and Afar..
From Tobia November 13, 1997
Ethiopia Called for International Pressure on Eritrea to Accept United Nations Resolution
Ethiopia called for international pressure on Eritrea, last Wednesday to take out her troops he based in Ethiopian regions as soon as possible, reuters news agency stated..
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi also called for both countries on the same day to accept the United Nations resolutions which states that both countries should immediately stop their border clashes.
"The Eritrean authorities haven't expressed their full acceptance to the resolution of the security council of the United Nations," said Meles to reuters.
And when he further explained the strategies of Eritreans, "Rather than fully accepting the organization's resolution, they decided to choose whatever suits them, and as if they took up the main issue they attempt to deliberately skip the key ones.
Reuters quoting the statement of Ethiopian Foreign Ministry detailed that the international community has the responsibility to continue putting pressure on the Eritrean government to take out its troops from Ethiopian locations, based on the proposal Ethiopia presented to the international community, and which was accepted by mediators and later by the organization of African unity..
Last June 28, the African leaders summit meting of the OAU approved with maximum vote the peace plan resolution of the United Nations Security council that could peacefully resolve their border clashes, and calls for both countries to avoid using force and abide by the peace plans.
It was to be recalled earlier that the Eritrean President had ruled out the resolution passed on by the OAU claiming that it basically took up the United States peace plan, while the same resolution was presented to them after having been supported by the Security Council, the Eritrea leadership said they accepted it.
Although the peace plan requires Eritrea to move her army back to where it was before the clash, there's no similar sanction for Ethiopia, the statement said.
"We're not close to peaceful situation; whether we're close to war is determined by the way Eritrea responds to the UN resolution, and when Eritrea leaves the occupied land," said Meles to reuters.
Dignitaries that consist of ministers were sent to Europe the request the international community to put pressure on Eritrea to accept and respect all the Security Council resolutions and take out her armies from the occupied Ethiopian territories, reuter told quoting Mr. Meles.   .
On the other hand, Mr.Meles pointed out that Ethiopia hasn't occupied Eritrean territory, and in fact, TPlF and his EPRDF government had criticisms for letting Eritrea scede from Ethiopia, reuters stated.
Finally, with regards to the last option, if the peaceful means turns out gloomy, Meles said, "If all peaceful means fail, we have the capacity as well as the power to take back our territories.
However, we prefer the peaceful means."
It's we who accepted Eritrea's independence knowing that we would be without ports.
But now the Eritrean leadership who are disseminating concocted stories was unable to convince their people why they hated their real friend, said reuters quoting Meles.
Since the border clash and escalated tension in the area, there have been 3 attempts, one after the other, starting from United States and Ruwandan governments, up to United Nations Security council so as to make both countries to peacefully resolve their problems, declaring ceasefire; Eritrea didn't accept it for all the peaceful resolutions insist on Eritrea's leaving the occupied Ethiopian land.
Diplomats said that both countries can, with a short notice, bring up to 350,000 army, this report said.                     .
From Fiameta July 10, 1998
Eritrea and Ethiopian business Transactions is said to be conducted in Foreign Currency
After Ethiopian and Eritrean new money notes became operational, the business transactions that would be conducted is going to be with foreign currency, just like other countries, and this has been agreed in principle level, the governor of the National Bank disclosed.
September 17, 1998.
The Addis Zemen Newspaper which appeared on this date reported quoting what the manager told Abiyotawi Democracy newspaper that Ethiopia was obliged to produce a new money notes mainly not because Eritrea printed a new one, but it deemed necessary to produce one that doesn't violated the constitution, he disclosed.
Even if Eritrea didn't produce bank notes, Ethiopian bank notes would have inevitably changed, given the fact nowadays the embezzlement conducted by photocopying the notes, and in order to protect this, new notes are deemed necessary, the bank governor said, newspaper reported.  .
From Tobia October 23, 1997
Tamerat Layne was Admitted to the Hospital
The former prime minister of the transitional government, Tamerat Layne became sick and admitted to a hospital three weeks after having told and advised former friends who were in power to confess their sins.
It's to be recalled that Tamrat Layne disclosed to Ethiopian people that there was an attempt to kill his sons, quoting an Ethiopian proverb "silence didn't help even the female lamb".
Tamerat Layne who was even slapped while he was in prison (he is expected to reveal this story in due process) has as of recently got people's support in his effort to defend the charges he's been accused of in the Supreme Court.
Especially his appeal which was made official through Menelik newspaper, has put Tamerat among the elites for he has written a scholarly paper in the prison, observers stated.
It's known that Mr. Tamerat's wife and children are now leading a refugee life out of the country.
While Tamerat was in power, his opponents in a pretext to sympathize with his wife opened up a defamation campaign, it was recalled.
Nevertheless, his wife wasn't defeated by gossips and took side with her husband and embarrassed them, close sources indicated.
Tamrat Layne said, in the appeal that appeared in Menlik Newspaper, "for my former friends, who have brought me here, I don't wish them to be thrown behind bars an suffer and befall wrong upon then just like me, just like my kids, I don't want their kids to face an invitation for death; just like my family, I don't ever wish their family to be in exile and the rest to suffer in their own country.
Just as they wish for me, I don't at any cost, wish them to be famished and die of hunger.
All these are the satanic appearance, their in human character, but not at all human nature.
What I wish them is to pray that they got a pure heart.
Rather than saying we're the only one who stand for this country, throwing this contemptuous and rigid attitude, forgetting their child game, James play which they call "reformation", they'd better coordinate all the people under unified aims, without giving names christened them, the elites and professionals who claim to stand for Ethiopian prosperity, it would be better if they use the last chance to project this country from the possible abyss she may fall in to.
The sun's inclined but not set completely.
But she is asking for a heart and a change of attitude.
1. If the date of the Second Coming suddenly comes,
The snap fastener of the soul, the iron gate of life ..... wouldn't save,
2. Retreating wouldn't help, nor would partaking holy communion,
3. Now is the time for confession, now is the time for prayer ...... today is the time for             forsaking the world,
Said the teacher, preacher, while advising his spiritual son."
From Satenaw January 28, 2002
Djibouti's Guled is Expected to Resign
According to sources from Djibouti, Hassen Guled Aptidon who has ruled Djibouti for 22 years is expected to announce his resignation this week.
It was also pointed out that his years of presidency lasts next May, but has no intention to be re-elected..
Guled as of recently has been in a state of serious health hazard, the same source disclosed..
Radio Djibouti revealed that the popular Role for progress Party will choose a candidate in its meeting by the end of this week.
The party may choose Ismael Umer Guleh, sources in Djibouti pointed out..
Djibouti is found in the strategic area around the Red Sea and has less than one million people..
Djibouti has still very strong ties with France, France Army bases itself permanently there.   .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
It's over for the Coalition?
TPLF and EPLF soldiers fought against one another – the President's residence was hit by a grenade launcher;
TPLF and EPLF soldiers who have had unity of combat for many years to secede Eritrea from Ethiopia and to bring TPLF to power, fought one another for two days by the side of Afar region, north eastern reporter of Tobia disclosed.
The unity of combat between Eritrean President Mr. Isayas Afeworki and Ethiopia's Prime Minister Mr. Meles Zenawi's blood-tie and special promise that stayed for more than 20 years, had already brought complaints and questions among the Tigrean people but it led to blood shed only during the clash that broke in an attempt to control sewerage of a river that was located around Afar and Eritrean border; there is a river found on the northern side of Dalol district called "Beda" which flows to Eritrea, that people of Eritrea and Dalol district use it for vegetable and fruit plantation.
During the struggle TPLF camped half of its army from Dedebit in this area and used to produce a lot of vegetable yield, while, on the other hand, EPLF, too used part of the area, but after 1991 it was divided in to two and named, Eritrean Beda, Afar Beda.
So as to have full control of this vegetable land named "Beda", that is the Eritrean Beda and "the Afar Beda" together, Eritrea /EPLF/ camped an army from 1991-1997 on the area.
The EPLF army passed the border and entered Dalol district in the second week of July and kidnapped the executive committee members of district 5, the zone 2 council reported to Afar national administrative government.  .
The president of the region Mr. Ismalel Ali Sero was born in Zone 2 district at Dalol, "Beda",and among the kidnapped council members two of them were his close relatives, and he said from the outset the Eritrean army which camped in Dalol troubled the people of the area, and urged the Ethiopian Federal Democratic government to camp its army at Dalol, and to release the arrested council members.
The council members who were released after two months were in a highly miserable condition, and to calm down the fury of the surrounding area, EPRDF had camped its soldiers at Dalol district, at a place called "Beda" Afar, it was to be recalled.
The Eritrean consulate in Asayita town asked the Afar National Administrative government, Federal government to uproot the EPRDF army from "Bada"..
As Mr. Ismael Ali Sero who was born and grown in this area, herding goats, he remembered once in December 1976 when he was kidnapped from his family by That, used to eat papaya and Plum, Banana and Orange-in abundance and he strongly argued that the EPRDF army should not leave this place for EPLF's present attempt is dangerous and could even be contentious for the future..
In the mean time, on September 10, 1998 while Afar people from Beda, were drinking their cattle's looking at their vegetables, EPLF fired guns.
The Afar people of Beda retaliated.
Since the war didn't calm down, the EPRDF soldiers stood by the side of the Afars and the exchange of gun fire stopped only because it became dark.
On another day, that is on October 3, 1998, another war broke out and in both sides there were injuries and deaths.
Although the Tigrean National Administrative government president Gebru Asrat and one EPLF commander-in-chief stopped the war temporarily, as long as the Eritrean army has a plan to take over "Beda" the war has just started, not ended.
Reliable sources are saying that EPRDF army has a plan not to defend EPLF but to send them away.
It's not to be thought that TPLF would give in "Beda" to EPLF, for she was an ancient place of products and provisions."
The sign for the worsening of the friendship of the two associates in struggle could be seen from Beda, as the saying goes "holding each other at bay."
Moreover, the Afar National Administrative government prepared a 4-week conference in July, where the assistant secretary, Mohammed Mufti was accused of being collaborator of assigning part of the AGGMU army to join EPRDF army, although the whole plot was disclosed to be that of EPRDF and not of the assistant secretary of AGGMU.
While the individual was on duty work to Djibouti, the Djibouti government has extradited him to EPRDF government and stayed in prison.
After he was imprisoned at unknown location in Addis Ababa for a year, Mohammed Mefti was made to attend the conference, unwillingly, and then was sent to prison, it was said.
The fury of the AGGUM army and the Afar people was so much so that it passed the limit, but then since the Afar people believe in reconciliation (it is administered by old people), it asked Mr. Ismael Ali Sero to release Mr. Mohammed.
But Sero said I don't ask a brigand to be released.
At a time when the question was suspended, last October 8, 1998, two grenade launcher were fired on the residence of President of Afar National Administrative Government, Mr. Ismael Ali Sero, in which Mr. Ismael Ali's properties were destroyed.
But since he was for along time at Holeta taking a course, he was rescued from being dead.
Mr. Ali lives in one of the recently completed 100 economy-houses, the houses were not allowed for the assigned professionals in the region, and were occupied by TPLF representative, Tekle Berhan, Eritrean consulate representative and other executive committee members of the regional administration.
After the shock created by the attack, the officials as well as residents are leaving the houses.
In an attempt to kill the deputy president, Mr. Ousman Anisa, in 1997, the brother of the deputy president was killed, had both presidents are now in the jaws of AGGMU.
For the past three days, it was possible to know that a clash has broken out between AGGMU and EPRDF in the same area of Afar region, and the fight continued at Afambo Asayita, where lots of Helicopters are observed going to and fro. .
From Tobia October 16, 1997
The Farmer Discovered Three Improved Teff Seeds
Nazareth (ENA): In his 11years study on selection of Teff seeds in eastern Shoa at three districts, one farmer disclosed that he discovered three seeds that could give better yields..
The Teff Seeds discovered by the farmer is proved by professionals are no less than those best seeds that are found in formal research. .
In the annual crop festival aimed at evaluating the activities of the farmers who were embraced in the extension package, the farmer who discovered the farmer from wolenchiti district, Mr. Sisay Tekle Selassie, explained that the seeds have the capability to reach for harvest in a short time and to withstand drought..
He also pointed out that since 1987 he has been selecting different Teff seeds and completed the gathering work in 1990.
In his two years study test, Mr. Sisay explained that he got more than 20 quintals of yield per hectar, gave these selected seeds to 10 farmers and the cultivated Teff is found in good condition.
The farmer explained that these Teff seeds would give similar yield with the ones discovered at Awash Melkasa Agricultural Research Center..
The farmer named the three new Teff seeds Fitsum, Iyasu and Kidist, after his children and the names have got recognition in the research center and farmers are using them, he disclosed..
He explained that among these seeds of Teff, the one named Fitsum is planted on 3.5 hectar land and it would start sprouting in 30 days..
The Teff seeds have received admiration from professionals who came for a visit from Alemaya Agriculture University, Mr. Sisay told..
For the last three years he has been embraced in the extension package and due to the support rendered from professionals he told that he bought two yoked oxen and built a house with corrugated iron roof.  .
During this crop evaluation festival, the zonal Agriculture Department head, Mr. Getachew Beyene pointed out that the farmer has registered a great result that's no less than that of research centers, by discovering Teff seeds in his own efforts..
Mr. Melese Temesgen, coordinator of National Agricultural Mechanization research section at Awash Melkasa Research Center, on his part explained that the discovery of the three seeds by the farmer through the support of the center have been found in good condition on the tilled land..
From Addis Zemen September 23, 1997
"The Draught Team is Excoriating the Patriarch.
Aba Paulos and Aba Gerima said Love unto Grave! Are head over Heels in love with one Anther!    .
In the General Assembly of the Holy Synod which was conducted since May 12, 1998 for 7 consecutive days, Aba Gerima who was dismissed from his position of general manager and secretary of the Holy Synod was promoted to another position due to the firm love he had with the patriarch. .
Although the Synod took the former authority general manager and other, from Aba Gerima accusing him for mistreating church, Aba Paulos and Aba Gerima, who over head over heels in love with one another moved above to the new building, "patriarch palace" taking a nearby office with in the building, the new sources from the clergy disclosed..
As soon as Aba Paulos dismissed the meeting of the members of the Synod, Aba Paulos immediately gave promotion to Aba Gerima as special secretary and higher official of foreign Relations, explained these sources, although the assembly of the synod didn't give Aba Gerima any position, except deposing him form the previous positions, as the case with him was similar to those workers who were suspended from their jobs, if not worse than theirs, sources indicated. .
Not limited by this, Aba Gerima was given full right to administer the finance together with the manager of the office of country preaching, it was disclosed..
According to workers of the clergy, they were not sure of the secrets behind the assignment of Aba Gerima to administer the finance, but it is a riddle as to why this kind of working has been devised for the first time, administering the finance by both General Manager of the clergy and General Manager of the Addis Ababa Office of preaching..
These workers disclosed that Aba Paulos, regardless of the decision of the Synod or the general manager would do anything he likes, for he considers both as nothing..
Even now unless a new law is in place that restricts the patriarch's power and authority, "changing bands alone doesn't solve the inner problem of the clergy, referring to the change of general managers, and are against the patriarch's unaccountable working ways workers who wanted to remain un anonymous mentioned.
On the other hand, the draught teams who have now been suspended form work and salary, are excoriating the patriarch; internal sources disclosed..
The team who has made nervous the churches of Addis, starting from the position it had to please the patriarch, how can the patriarch be willing when we were suspended from work, started a hatred and defamation campaign, internal sources told..
The draught team stated that they didn't do anything without his knowledge, they have been loyal to his orders, but when bad times some and he wanted to expose them saying I'm clean from all these, it seems that they would expose everything, it is told; the recent news has been new to all..
That it's the expectation of many the draught team who said they didn't do worse things that the administration of Aba Paulos and Aba Gerima, seem to focus its opposition against the patriarch..
Any way, their association which bases itself on mundane things, are said in the process of demolishing as their members are finishing their resources, internal sources disclosed..
The money they collected being expended to useless things is God's work, they said..
From Fiameta June 24, 1998
The Monks' Scandal Proved once more!
What we were told in the February 17th and 23rd 1998 editions of Fiameta news paper, have been proved once again by some insiders regarding the ethical corruption of two monks who were removed from DireDawa.
The insiders who were disappointed and were present as observers at the place expressed that Aba Melkamu Mekonnen and Aba Gebre Hiwot Bekele at a nearby area known as Feres Megala, "Amare Leqor House" on December 31 1998, they spent drinking the night and went to the bedrooms where they were seen flirting with the prostitutes, but due to the expensive money the latter requested, they had had arguments and as a result were exposed, the area sources disclosed..
The monks who were the administrators of Saint Michael and Saint Mary Churches were said to frequent this liquor house and the other customers and the people in the surrounding area who were able to observe the argument between the monks and the commercial sex workers, some tried to mediate others shouting and attempted to hit these monks for they had humiliated them, and as people increased pouring to the place some even went as far as snatching their cap and cross.
Due to this problem, church teacher Tedla, Mr. Assefa, Mr. Fisseha and others proposed that they should not enter the sanctuary of the church but both monks went to Addis Ababa, the report disclosed..
On the other side, it was reported that "they were found in the hotel when they were about to be robed by brigands".
However, the observers wondered as to why they were found in the hotel during that time, and why didn't they return home before later?.
Close people to him said that Aba Melkamu complained that it was Aba Gebrehiwot who encouraged him to go there..
For the sake of the church, we were indebted not to publish all the detail reports it reached us on 1-5-98 regarding the two monks' ethical misbehavior under a title 'It's Finished'.
From Fiameta April 1, 1998
Editoria.
It calls for a Belief from the Bottom of the Hear.
It has been five years since the existence of the legislation of the free press has become legally approved.
Although a lot could be said about the fact that proclamation 34/85 is not clear and from the angle of the penalty it may bring about on the free press it has its own share of making sure that the foundation and central pillar of democracy, the right to speak and write, and prohibition of censor ship has been legalized.
Side by side the products of the free press even before the press proclamation was decreed, and after, that, are paying heavy sacrifice with regards to the people's right to know, and has contributed one big chapter in the history of our country.
The freedom to speak and write has, once again, been validated. .
For the first time in the history of the country, numerous newspapers and magazines grew and developed people's out look.
The existence of newspapers and magazines by itself is not an end.
What's called press freedom is not the bodily existence of the press products.
Products of the press should publish and disclose all the news that need to reach the public so that the government could work openly and in a legal way.
Performing the work of the free press means, with out government intervention, the journalist delivering news to the public in a responsible feeling and assisting to amend themselves by criticizing the destructive tendencies of the government..
Is the Ethiopian Free Press in a level that could do this?.
No.
The reason it could not do this emanates from the free press itself and especially from EPRDF, gov't from which it claimed "the freedom was gotten by my struggle".
There could be shortage of experience on the side of the free press.
"As a result, it can not be said there aren't any problems out of the ethics of journalism.
This straightforward flaw, however, "the free press is the mouthpiece of oppositions."
The free press is the gathering of the defeated sides.
"Having claimed that there was no need to attack with the sword of propaganda.
Before teaching and correcting, there's no problem that could be resolved by chasing and arresting the free press journalists.
Basically there is no reason a journalist could be arrested claiming for investigation due to press crime, unless he/she is sentenced to imprisonment.
When we analyze the problems of the free press today in our country, we don't see the government in power has a belief from the bottom of the heart from the widening of democracy and strengthening of the free press in our country.
The products of the free press that are seen in Addis Ababa and few towns of the country, if they were intended to show off the democracy, a great intrigue is being made on the democracy.
The people want the government of the people, a government which hears the queries of the people, and a government that works openly and legally.
And to bring about such a government, the people do not have a better tool other than expressing its ideas feely, willingly voting.
For this, the principal forum is the free press.
Those who open a hate-campaign on the free press are the only ones who went to live on the shoulders of the people without the willingness of the people.
It's not without a reason that we say that there's no interest among the current governors to strengthen the free press.        .
On the one hand, the incumbent party and the government structure it controls strengths its own propaganda Medias, it opens a propaganda campaign on the free press which operate on small financial and human resource capability.
From the perspective of the press law and the country's other legislations, while journalists, who committed press crime could be accused and, if found guilty, penalized, they are gathered and put behind bars by investigation departments.                                    .
The Campaign opened by the EPRDF's press "Revolutionary Democracy" recently and the campaign opened against Ethiop, Wenchif, Urji and other newspapers openly shows the not-so-good attitude the government has on the free press.
The sanction befell up on newspapers and magazines not to promote their papers in radio and television, the now-and-then penalty of imprisonment and money upon the editors of free press are not the reflections of good attitude.
According to the very many letters we receive form the public, reading a free press for a government worker may lead him/her to be considered as opposition and even lead to be evaluated.
Especially in the Tigray and Amhara regions the products of the press are read in secret.
It means that the people are made to be out of the democratic process.
The press law itself which has counted five years since its inception should be viewed again from the perspective of constitutional decree.
The EFDR constitution, Article 29 the rights to have a different out look and to express one's ideas freely "could be sanctioned only based on the laws that would be decreed on the principle that the freedom to get access of ideas and information could not be sanctioned by its content of ideas and the result of ideas it may bring about," it has such a forceful expression.
The press law was not amended in line with this principle..
Charges are still filed against newspapers claiming "troubling people's ideas".
The constitution knows the right to get information.
But the free press is forbidden to get government's information.
If the free press is strengthened the beneficiary is not only the public.
Press for the government is a principal method of looking in to itself and take measures of correction.
And a government which doesn't look into itself would eventually lead itself to failure. .
Therefore, government would be the first beneficiary if it evaluates its outlook on the free press and make corrections, at the 5th anniversary of the press proclamation.
Confrontation with the free press and democratic forces wouldn't take anywhere.
Hence, the problems we pointed out at this juncture should be viewed properly.
It is only then that we can say that democracy and free press are believed from the bottom of the heart by the current power holders..
From Tobia October 23, 1997
Message from Fiameta
The Key to control the currently spreading malaria epidemic is to establish its own organization.
Since recently even the highland areas of Ethiopia have been hearts of mosquito and it's not only regrettable to see many people dying but also make historically accountable in the future.
The fact that there was an independent center for malaria-control on a national level with different branches elsewhere that was established based on a research that epidemic would occur in certain temperate Zones and lowland areas, spraying pesticides including with airplane, teaching both victims of malaria and those who aren't infected with it used to play an important role, and as a result, malaria has never been major enemy to Ethiopian people..
As soon as the EPRDF government took power it demolished this office and, in the pretext of restructuring, assigned it to be established in the regional administration giving ay to the scattering of professionals, and the problem was created..
If quick measures are not taken with clear understanding to avert the situation, the number of casualties will escalate. .
Although the people In Gojam, Northern and Eastern Shoa have long become victims of malaria, it won't be a panacea to accuse one another, rather than seeking immediate solution..
To oust the minister of Health from his position or taking measures on others couldn't be a solution..
Malaria epidemic just like locust plague is a campaign that is to be launched nation-wide and continent-wise in combination, not something to be left only for the regions..
So, we recommend that a nation wide malaria control and prevention office be established, and let the urgent task of protection and wiping away of malaria starts.     .
From Fiameta February 19, 1999
Ethiopia Accepted the Lifting of the sanction on Ammunition
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs disclosed that Ethiopia accepted the decision to lift the sanction from getting access to ammunition the day before yesterday which the United Nations had put on Ethiopia and Eritrea..
In a statement the ministry of foreign affairs released yesterday, it said that the fact that the Security Council expressed the sanction from getting access of ammunition which had been put on both countries wouldn't continue pointed out that the sanction is lifted..
The sanction from accessing ammunition the Security Council had put on for the last year reminded Ethiopia that injustice act of being sufferer of aggression, she was equally became victim of the sanction like the aggressor, the statement disclosed.
The statement that was released form the Security Council the day before yesterday reminded that in order to bring about stability in the horn of Africa, both countries should focus on economic development and negotiation rather than buying ammunition and other military activities, yet, Ethiopia, from the very beginning, when aggression was waged against her, believed that the international community would condemn the aggression, and this would happen.    .
The peaceful effort Ethiopia has been making to reverse the situation, not able to call her aggressor an aggressor and the fact that she couldn't execute international law, her effort became futile, the statement disclosed.
However, the lesson that was gotten form the past experience an aggressor should not, in any way, be encouraged, and it is only then that countries who gave precedence for their economic development would, without any impediment, meet their goals, the statement disclosed..
The statement disclosed that it is only then that lasing peace and stability would reign in the continent..
From Addis Zemen May 17, 2001 .
Ethiopia and Eritrean currency are said to be changed on the same date!!
While it has been several months since Eritrean made it official that Ethiopian Birr can be exchanged for "Nakfa", she hasn't made it operational yet.
The associate reports for Fiameta in Asmara quoting some sources said that both currencies would be changed on the same date.
The Eritrean currency has not been changed because Ethiopia hasn't been showing any interest on the issue, said the report quoting Teka Beyene, Eritrean Bank Governor.
But according to the recent agreement it is reported that both parties would change the previous Birr.
Although Eritrea proposed for both currencies to have equal exchange value, Ethiopia proposed that they should conduct commercial transactions with (American) dollar when they deal with big business.
This idea of putting dollar more often than Nakfa in trade troubles Eritrean officials..
The idea that the potential value of Nakfa could become lower as compared to Ethiopian Birr has been held by many people from various quarters.
Eritrean Bank governor Ato Taka Beyene, on his part, said that Eritrean Nakfa would be evaluated at the end of every fiscal year would be discussed upon and measures would be taken.
There are some observers who claim that this means if Nakfa's exchange values deteriorate, Eritreans would have once again a dream of using Ethiopian Birr..
In connection of this it was reported that the future Ethio-Eritrean trade relations would put Nakfa's buying power into question, for Ethiopia doesn't have many items to import from Eritrea.
On the other hand, Nakfa's impact on Ethiopian Birr is very negligible and its power many even be less than the present currencies in Somalia and Djibouti..
Meanwhile, both parties had been conducting continous meetings so as to make the change of the previous currency operational the same day.
Internal sources also suggest that the change may be take place in one of the Saturdays..
From Fiameta October 29, 1997
One village was destroyed in the war in the southern side of Juba
A great dameage occured in the heavy fight couducted by the Southern Somali factions, BBC reported.
In this continous fighting around the southern side of Juba, a village namded Hosinjo was fully devastated, BBC reported.
It was disclosed that the only remaining thing was the village mosque.
In this fighting, indivduals with 50 in number were killed and the fight was conducted between Ogaden and Shikhal clans on a claim of land, it was uncovered.
On the other hand, the fight that is going on between Hussien Iydid and oppostion Militia factions is becoming heavy, BBC reported.
The fight was supported by machine guns and in the heavy fight conducted at Kore Wole between Iydid and the faction, degel, Iydid's force was heavily attacked and was obliged to run away, while Degel's force controlled Kereyolen town, it was reported..
In this fight Degel's force was given support from another opposition, Kerehan Weyn and caught more than 100 automatic rifles, it's repoted.
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
Sudan Disclosed it is only Sudan and Egypt that have Priority Right on the Use of Abay River..
Sherif Al Tuhami, Sudanese Minister of Irrigation and Water Resources in the statement he gave to Reuters on Monday, said since Sudan and Egypt have for 700 years based their civilizations and agriculture on Abay, they have priority rights with regards to the use of Abay..
The minister who discussed about this issue last Monday with Reuters, stated that his country planned to build hydroelectric dams using Abay water, and for the construction they invited private foreign companies and the begotten product is said to be sold, he pointed out.
For the question Reuter asked him about Ethiopia's interest regarding the equitable share of Abay Rivers, he replied Ethiopia has to put forward he request for discussion and if it's not against the utilization procedure, he said, they'll find ways to cooperate with her..
And by saying so tried to present Ethiopia as if she doesn't have rights..
Asked what if Ethiopia wanted to use more water and took her own measure, Tuhami replied that I don't think Ethiopia would do that..
They know what this may result in..
It's very dangerous, he said..
Ethiopia which is the source of Tikur abay river doesn't know about the agreement Egypt and Sudan made pertaining to the division of water in 1959.
This agreement allocated 55.8 billion cubic meter water to Egypt while Sudan would take 18.5 billion cubic meter water..
From Fiameta Sunday edition September 3, 1998           .
From Fiameta September 6, 1998
The Continuation of Fiameta Newspaper would Strengthen the Effort of the Press
Colonel Kassahun Terfe – Editorial Board Member of Fiameta Newspaper
It's not difficult to see for anyone the contribution of press products such as magazines and newspapers in teaching people and to enable it stand for its rights by knowing its freedom in the democratic world.
However, since many newspapers, due to different reasons, stopped their work the contribution they were making has discontinued.
Among these Fiameta newspaper was one.
The edition in chief of Fiameta newspaper Mr. Dawit Kebede stopped working for certain weeks because he was encountered by pressures of several charges and so couldn't work at case.
Since the contribution the newspaper made in enlightening people was so great, the press family took the responsibility and started it all over again for they believed that it shouldn't give up and is now showing a good start.
While we would like to appreciate these groups for taking such an initiative, we would personally give our suggestions for the newspapers which are out of work to come again strengthened and start all over again.
From Fiameta December 30, 1999
A Daily Newspaper which is to be Distributed in Six Countries would start Publication on Monday
The company named "sub-saharan Informer" has completed its preparation to publish a colored daily newspaper that is to make its appearance in six African countries, including Ethiopia..
The English newspaper whose name is said to be "The Sub-Informer" would have 32 pages and is decided to make its distribution 124 thousand copies each day, the company disclosed. .
Sub-sharan Informer which has opened bureau for months in different African countries and have been studying the market, has how laid all the necessary preparations for publications..
According to the information gathered from the organization the publication of the news paper begins in Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Nairobi, Tanzania and Uganda..
The largest number of copies of the newspaper, 37 thousand, would be distributed in Nigeria while the lowest number of publication is 5 thousand which is in Ethiopia..
The content of the newspaper is divided into two: The part where common news is shared among all the countries, and special features prepared especially for each country's consumption would be the other part.
It's disclosed that the company's offices opened in different countries would combine and organize their news through the internet..
When the newspaper publication starts in South Africa, Zimbabwe and Zambia after 8 months, the number of countries where the newspaper would be available rises to nine, and daily distribution of the paper would also rise to double 240 thousand, the company stated its plans.  .
With at least 8 of its pages being colored, the Sub-Saharn Informer would be the first news paper to be available in many African countries..
The cost of advertisement publication the company asks for would be fair and the market price of a newspaper is 3 Birr and 50 cents, the company disclosed.   .
From Addis Admas January 12, 200.
The American Government Signed A 30 Million Birr Agreemen.
Makele:- The American government signed a 30 million Birr agreement yesterday with Tigray National Regional Government and non-government organizations, which operate in the region..
The offered money would be expended on residence houses of Gule Mehada and Irob Districts ruined by the war, health institutions, schools, water projects and to protect the explosives, to give strengthened education on HIV AIDS and for the purchasing of goods, the regional administration disclosed.  .
The aid agreement was signed by American Ambassador to Ethiopia Mr. Tibor Nadze and Tigrean Region Regional Administrative Government social Department Head Dr Solomon Enquay and representatives of Tigray Development Association, the Catholic Aid Service, Cooperation International and Medicine San Frontiers..
Out of the offered money, 16 million Birr would be expended through Tigrean Development Association..
In his speech during this time, Ambassador Tibor Nadze pointed out that the American government has strong relationship with Tigrean people and reminded that earlier his government distributed 167 thousand tons of cereals of foods for those who were displaced from their house and proportions by war and victims of drought, and is now giving aid for execution of development works..
Dr. Solomon Enquacy on his part pointed out that the regional government and non-governmental organizations have been prepared to work together and thanked the American government for the aid it offered.
The displaced people from Gulo Mehada and Irob District people who were present during the aid agreement suggested that even though their invaded homes were freed by the heroic army, the magnitude of looting conducted was so high and the area was enclosed by explosives, they're still living in the bushes and fields, so called for other governments to follow suit..
From Addis Zemen May 11, 2001
The Administrator was told to have his Fingers on the Till with Regards to the Church's Money.
The administrator of Bole Debre Mihret St. Michael church, Aba Gebre Tsadik Wolde Ghiorgis took the 10,000 Birr money that was donated by a benevolent laity, forbidding it to be registered in the accounts leader, Model 30.
The money was donated by a benevolent Christian who is the owner of Axum hotel, the report detailed, and after having announced through the microphone for the Christian laity, Aba Gebretsadik forbade that the money shouldn't go to the accounts' ledger through official receipt, despite the oppositions mounting form various similar officials, of the church, asking the entry of the money through official means.
The workers who felt responsible and were aware that the 10.000 Birr shouldn't be wasted in arrogance by the administrator appealed to Addis Ababa Office of Preaching, and the latter sent four investigating workers of the office in a letter written by No. 1188/40/90 on March 8, 1998 and the administrator admitted that he received the 10,000 and signed on a document to which these auditors gave to the general manager of Office of National reaching, Aba GebreMichael Beyne who made it obscure, it was disclosed.
The money that laity brought as a token of love shouldn't be wasted as one recklessly wished, the report pointed out, and those workers who raised this question as to why the money was wasted and opposed the former, were harmed, the report explained..
The report criticized quoting the Ethiopian saying "while the rat ate, the shrubs were beaten".
Aba Gebretsadik is presently having constructed a building with mystic intention with collaborators and the church's water is wasted, and in the name of the church he has built 3 rooms house in approximately 2000 square centimeters of the church premise, the ox that was given to the church as a holy offering was slaughtered all with his own decision, the report added.
The other thing that very much saddened the workers and the surrounding laity was the obscurity displayed, by the patriarch's cousin, Mr. Yared and Aba GebreMichael while the people appealed to them as higher authorities, and the administrator feeling proud by the afforested authorities started building a private house with in the premise of the church, reported those who couldn't find fairness in their appeal.
In the mean time, despite the many extra cars they have the Addis Ababa church and Monastery was ordered to send the money for the purchase of a car to be awarded to the patriarch and the receipt of the expenditure of this car which Aba GebreMichael urgently ordered, was presented to the office of National preaching, it was disclosed..
The extra money that was taken from various churches in the pretext of buying a car is contentious and even previously these were poor churches who were incapable but obliged to pay their share, some people disclosed.        .
From Fiameta June 3, 1998
The 50th Anniversary of Addis Ababa Chamber of Commerce was Celebrated with different occasions
The 50th anniversary of the Addis Ababa Chamber of Commerce is being celebrated from November 4, 1998 up to November 14, 1998 with international trade fair symposium and different festivities.
In the 3rd Addis Chamber International Trade Fair which was intended to coincide with the occasion, 181 organizations, local and foreign, predicated and presented their produces, out of which 64 of them were foreign companies.
This trade fair which was believed to play a pivotal role in widening trade and investment, connecting seller and buyer as well as strengthening technological transition, would be open for 12 days from November 4, 1998 onwards.
In relation to this trade fair, an international symposium under the leading aim "making the most of Ethiopian Economic Environment" was held from November 9-10, 1998.
In this symposium that was held in African Economic Commission meeting hall, higher government officials, local and foreign elites and business delegates presented research papers that pointed out the problems and remedies of Ethiopian local and international trade..
Among the papers presented, in order to benefit from international trade and investment, Ethiopia needs political and social stability and it is expected from the government to play a crucial role in strengthening and encouraging the private sector.
From Tobia November 13, 1997
Issayas said He would Agree on the Peace Plans if Priority is given to Cease-Fire and Border Demarcation.
Since the border conflict surfaced between Ethiopia and Eritrea, peace plans that first initiated by United States and Rwanda which comprise 4 points were proposed to both countries to avoid an all-out war, Ethiopia accepts while Eritrea over ruled..
Again for the 2nd round-talk, the African leaders' summit meeting in Burkina Faso discussed the issue as the main agenda and took the place plan as it is, decided that the two governments should execute it the Eritrean President overruled it for the second time; the African News service said that the OAU dignitaries who went to Asmara talk Eritrea's president confirmed that if the dignitaries give priorities on the basic problems, he will agree on the mediation.
In his press statement, Issayas Afeworki asserted that is the demarcation of the border and cease-fire, and besides he calls for direct talk with Ethiopian leaders, the news service pointed out..
In the complaints Eritrean government Presented it accused at the time the world community calls for peaceful resolutions for the escalting tension between the two countries, Ethiopian government is waging war, last year it occupied Atsi-Murug which is found in Bada, and now Beademe, the root cause for the present conflict.
The Eritrean President expressed his acceptance of United Nations Peace Decision whole, the 8 points out of the 9 ones but not the article which requests his troops to go out of Beademe.   .
On the whole, Eritrea's position is that Beademe and Sheraro are in Eritrea's teritory and, hence, she can't take out her troops out of these places, and first let the border be demarcated and cease fire reigns, reported the news service.
On the other hand, Yemane G/Meskel, advisor to Eritrea's President repeatedly told Reuters that unless peace prevails, Eritrea's army will not leave the occupied locations..
From Fiameta July 10, 1998
It was disclosed that Eritrea would recently pull out her troops from the security Zone that's going to be established.
In order to continue the process of establishing a temporary security zones between Ethiopian and Eritrean troops, Eritrean troops would start moving backwards as from May 5, 2001 ENA reported quoting the United Nations mission for Ethiopia and Eritrea.
The mission in its statement yesterday, recalled that Eritrea didn't fulfill her duties to pull out her troops by last March 2, 2001, being against some issues on the would-be established temporary security zone at the Southern border, but now decided to take out her troops after five days without any conditions.
However, the country disclosed that she expected some amendments from the United Nations Mission to give focus and resolve the complaints Eritrea has vis-à-vis the temporary security zone southern border..
The mission pointed out that Eritrea disclosed her decision to pull out her troops with out any condition from the would-be established temporary security zone in a meeting held in Asmara with the deputy of Kofi Anan and representative of United Nations Mission for Ethiopia and Eritrea, Ian martin and the mission's Force commander-in-chief major General Patrick Kamert.
The special messenger of the secretary of the United Nations in Addis Ababa, Legwayla Joseph legwayla, said the decision is encouraging and expressed his acceptance.
The next military coordinating commission meeting that would be led by the mission's Force Commander-in-chief and where high military representatives of both countries are participating, is planned to be held on May 6, 2001, it was disclosed.
On the other hand, with regards to the bomb blast at the Eritrean's Tsorena on three United Nations vehicles that injured Canadian Peace Forces and as to the claim Eritrean radio broadcasted accusing Ethiopia for planting it, he replied for the time being the mission couldn't prove which side planted the bomb..
The spokesperson told for the United Nations Integrative Regional Information Network (IRIN) that since that mission didn't get full information pertaining bombs, it is not in a position to prove such kind of information.
The mission's spokesperson for bombs coordinator committee in Asmara, Fil Lewis on his part said that the report the radio broadcasted is what was given by the Eritrean Political commissioner and not by the mission, walta Information Center reported..
It is to be recalled that as a result of an ammunition that went off by itself due to a bomb explosion in Eritrea on March 12, 13 and 18, 2001, a damage was brought about on vechiles and Soldiers of United Nations Mission for Ethiopia and Eritrea.
From Addis Zemen March 31, 2001
Eritrean Catholic Priests were said to Create Problems in Saint Joseph School
Two Eritrean teachers in Saint Joseph boys' school are doing harm students reported victims to our office..
These Eritreans are speeding their acts which are done in the spirit of revenge, they said.
The director of the school brother Paulos wolde Aregay and Brother Woldu Hailu, who went together to the religious teaching institution, expressed that they have been proud of their being Eritrean, and after the clash between the two countries surfaced, they have started putting pressures on students and teachers, they disclosed..
One of these was that they sent out students, who were taking school leaving examinations this year, just a week before their examination in an excuse of disciplinary case..
While explaining about the harms these two Eritreans did to them, they said that the Saint Joseph teachers have no rights..
These teachers are not allowed to gather and conduct meetings; even during their free period time, they were not permitted to meet one another, for each teacher would be obliged to stay in the class where he happens to be..
Even when they want to dismiss students, they write letters on the students and have them signed by teachers of as to take measures, they disclosed..
Particularly brother woldu Hailu, accuses students himself or having them accused with no apparent reason, and made a call to their parents deeply insulting them, doing something which is not expected from a teacher, they added..
The source also disclosed that the school doesn't have Parents' committee and the Ministry of Education doesn't take any control on the school, wondering how long would this continue?   .
Why has the government kept silent?  .
They concluded their suggestions..
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
The priest monk said he's looking for a work as a driver of a taxi as the door of the clergy was closed for him!
The Priest used to grow up in the church from childhood on wards, from deaconhood to priesthood, from monkhood to abbacy; served the church in various spiritual responsibilities, but as of recently, the door of the clergy has been closed upon him and he is not given salary and dismissed from work, so he's looking for a job, even if it was driving a taxi, he explained.
A father whose name wanted to remain anonymous (a priest monk) said that he appealed to the patriarch repeatedly for he was sick and tired of the ups and downs, but that was also of no avail, and since he has a driving license, he is at present obliged to look for a job as a driver of taxi, he told.
The present clergy who's said to be felled with family members and where nothing Christian is being reflected has turned out to be a surprise to many, as she started closing doors upon her own children.  .
The priest expressed that it was after waiting patiently for long and seeing that the clergy is collecting people through blood-ties, and relations in terms benefit, not through justice, instead, chasing away children of the church, and gathering males and females who have no role in the church, that it was when the misery reached its climax that he was forced to look for private jobs, the priest expressed.
From Fiameta July 28, 1999
The Clergy Released a Statement on Chief Ayalew!
The clergy which is said to be filled with unrest and disturbance released a statement criticizing the chairman of the assembly of scholars, chief Ayalew Tamiru, under the title "Condemnation without having priesthood?"
It released the statement this month.
The chief also gave a response saying it "Empty".
The priests and the laity who saw this statement which was full of insults and which was released at a time of Lout when priests and the laity were found fasting praying and let reading for prayer, were deeply saddened, the suggestions that came out from different directions pointed out.
The publication of the clergy in "church News" in its August 15, 1999 edition under the title, "A statement released by the clergy" excoriated Chief Ayalew with plain insulting words - the statement.
The statement which convicted the dignified elderly man and a "scholar" who served the church for 50 years Chief Ayalew Tamiru calling his Excellency as plain "he" put the church at a mercy; and was a reflection of an expression of the officials' hatred on Chief Ayalew, and it opened a door for the church to become distrubed in the time ahead, just like the previous years..
the message came out in response to what chief Ayalew said with regards to the ordination of arch-bishops on July 13, 1999 on a free press newspaper, Time, under the title "The arch-bishops should have been ordained on Sunday rather than on Monday for it violated the dogma of the church..
The statement was released in response to this convicting and criticizing it.
While the message of chief Ayalew was basically the ordination should have taken place on Sunday, the clergy's statement, said "the ordination from arch-bishop to the patriarchood was given to the holy apostles not on Sunday but on some other day". .
The statement expressed through this that the earlier apostles were also arch-bishops and patriarchs.
Moreover, the statement belittled chief Ayalew's message by elaborating, "The ordination up to patriarch-hood was performed on the day of Ascension.
The Ascension was on Thursday ... As our Lord ordained priesthood on Sunday, He also ordained bishops on other days."
The statement denigrated Chief Ayalew's message by that.
The use of words in the statement was rude, indecent and not expected from the church's press, and except few, the majority workers of the clergy found it disgusting, the related news pointed out..
There are some who say, "The statement rather than seeking correction, it widened the long-standing problem of the church as well as it disappointed many for releasing statement expressing (the Lord's disciples) were bishops, patriarchs."
There are people who were critical about this statement.
There are sides who speak that other than the unrest and disturbance, the church is also going backwards in her spiritual performances.
Leave alone the rest, these sides say, "Let alone this statement which was full of insults and that came out on August '99 on its church News, is a response for what was written in June and July, which had been read and written long ago, the fact that this elderly and ancient church not releasing new works that are done timely by itself is indicative of shortage of people within the institution, they said.
While these days new beliefs release publications monthly and weekly and even shorter than this time length, establishing book stores in every quarter and widening their beliefs, it's sorrowful to see the earlier church turning in to an insulting forum, they are not few who admit this.
There are other who expressed their appreciation saying that if there's one body that's active and operates on its won interest and effort, it's the group called "Mahbere Kidusan".
It has been painful for all to see yesterday, today, last year, the year before last the church being full of turmoil and losing her peace and unity.
"The unlucky church" they said with sorrow.
The chief, in response to the statement from the clergy, stated that he has served the church more than fifty years, and that he is not new for the church and the laity, that he very well knows the church's overall discipline, and that he has worked what ever he has to, and said that the statement released from the clergy was far from the Biblical truth.
In his response entitled "The Euphorbia of Monday and Her Blessing" in a private news paper, it was possible to understand that the church doesn't have people who grew up in spiritual knowledge.
The comment written on chief Ayalew was completely irrelevant and inappropriate, professional religious people suggested.
The chief not only criticized the statement by saying "Empty and Linseed" but also elaborated by mentioning the right evidence – in his response.
Not only is chief Ayalew known by being a scholar, but he's a real professional, who's believed to be anointed by God and able to express his knowledge and the dogma of the church in good condition, as most agree.
Therefore, the statement of the clergy mentioned that the ordination of the bishops in not necessarily on Sunday while Chief Ayalew came up with a statement saying "Arch-bishops should be ordained on Sunday, the election should also be made on Sunday.
This has said by Apostles in Didskilie, Article 37 scholars in Spiritual Justice Article 5 they wrote, ordered this."
He wrote the basic tangible evidence.
Many say that the clergy made a statement just to express her hatred on Chief Ayalew, otherwise, the church didn't have earlier, doesn't have now and won't have in the future a multi-purpose professional like chief Ayalew.
From Fiameta August 25, 1999
America Warned Her Citizens!.
ELF Protested against Ethiopia, Opposition Organizations Protested against Eritrea!
The American Foreign Affairs Office requested American citizens to be far away from the tensioned areas of Ethiopia and Eritrea.
American citizen workers who are located around the border are made to transfer to another place until situations calm down, the office disclosed.
The areas mentioned are Tigreay, northern Afar, south of Keren town and south-eastern Eritrea.
It was disclosed that United States government workers were also made to go out from Eritrean Mendefera towns sough and eastern parts, from Asab, too.
The office warned the Americans to go out form the mentioned areas.
In the mean time, the organization which is in exile and opposition for EPLF, ELF protested against Ethiopia's claim of land and expressed its support for EPLF.
According to the statement of ELF, the present claim of land Ethiopia requested belongs to Eritrea, it described.
According to the sources which claim to be close to the issue, said, Bademe was under the control of ELF and in a war fought with EPLF it was taken from them for they were defeated and EPLF gave it to TPLF temporarily as a camp, these sources are heard saying.
On the other hand, opposition organization to EPRDF, condemn Eritrea's aggression from the perspective of a sovereign nation.
In particular, EDU which controlled the surrounding areas of Beademe at the time of armed struggle stated in the released statement that Beademe is Ethiopia's.
The AU Amhara peoples organization (AAPO), Ethiopian peace and Democracy Alternative Force (EPDA), All Ethiopian Socialist Movement (AESM), Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), Ethiopian People Revolutionary Party (EPRP), Medhin Democratic Party gave statements on the current issues.
Among these opposition organizations, EPRP's statement said, "It's not surprising if Meles rose today being sympathetic for Ethiopia whom he has betrayed up to now, and if he doesn't get people to be victims for his usual intrigues,...he used to say that what you said as history is a hundred year history, and not a district but he has Eritrea seceded.   .
If he wanted to withstand with the tail having given the elephant today, it doesn't surpass from being funny,.
He said.
The Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) on its part, reminded that citizens should not participate in this war; citizens should not involve in a clash that doesn't bring about any economic and political change in their life, it said..
From Fiameta June 3, 1998
Athlete Haile Gebreselassie was awarded an Honorary Law Doctoral Degre.
Athlete Haile Gebreselassie disclosed that he received an honorary law doctoral degree from Ireland National University.
Athlete Haile was awarded the honorary doctorate for his international contribution and participation in working with various social and humanitarian organizations.
The newspaper reported that Haile was selected as a candidate for his doctorate due to his being a winner in athletics for 12 years, as well as his cooperative work with United Nations children's Fund and other humanitarian organizations..
He was selected among 15 intellectuals and finally became among the three winners, he disclosed to the Ethiopian News agency yesterday..
The individuals who were awarded similar doctorate degree were Mr. Vincent Doile, editor-in-chief of Irish Independent newspaper, John Burton, the presently serving ambassador and diplomat to the European Union in America, "Irish Independent" reported.
Among the criterion that enabled him to be selected was his success in preparing athletic competition of International Standard in Addis Ababa, it explained. .
From Addis Zemen April 27, 2005
Ethiopian Diplomats in Switzerland are said to Have Relations with Shabian (EPLF) Agents
Ethiopian Embassies and consulates are still said to be not free from Eritreans.
Among these consulates, Ethiopian consulate in Geneva is main instance, according to the statement reached us from the place..
Previously in the consulates rather than serving Ethiopians, priority was being given to Eritreans, cooperation was given in having Ethiopian passports, and investment access was being facilitated to them in Addis as well as elsewhere in the country, the consulate plays an ideal role in enabling them with these..
Among the people who came to Ethiopia and invested on animal husbandry and loading trucks, Ato Gebre Meskel Tsegaye is to be mentioned..
Ato Gebre Meskel was close to both EPLF and TPLF people..
Recently, this individual's business activities have been discontinued, and he was obliged to be expelled from the country..
Although Ato Gebre Meskel Gebre Hiwot is now out of Ethiopia, his relations to the consulate was not only strong but also received a great support form Ethiopian diplomats in Switz-Geneva so as to enable him invest in Ethiopia..
The secretary of the consulate, Ato Teferi Meles' father, Ato Meles Desta has, up to recent times, been assigned to work together with the Eritrean citizen G/Meskel Tsegay, and this was done as a cover, said the individuals whom we talked pertaining the matter..
With regards to the secretary of Ethiopian consulate in Switz-Geneva, Ato Teferi meles' relations with the Eritrean Gebre Meskel, its obvious to all, interior sources added..
If we take an instance, when Teferi went to Addis Ababa for his wedding, it was Gebre meskel Tsegay who covered all his wedding, it was Gebre Meskel Tsegay who covered all his wedding expenses, and in fact, he was also among his best men.
So their relation was so close and strong.
As a result of this relation, many intrigues are still inflicted upon Ethiopians today, said internal sources..
It was at this time when Ato Teferi Meles was being criticized about his relations with Gebre Meskel that an individual named Dawit Asegdom was sent to Ethiopia..
In our last week edition, it was mentioned that Ato Dawit Asegdom was chosen by Ato Meles in a pretext of handing over aid, an it was mentioned that his being sent to Addis Ababa, made many Ethiopians furious..
While Ethiopians presided there questioned as to why Shaebiya's spy was sent, Geneva's Ethiopian consulate didn't accept the request..
The statement it reached us stated that Dawit Asegdom has never been a spy..
And if he's considered a spy, then he's spying for Ethiopia, the report from Geneva stated..
On the other hand, Ato Eskinder Desta who claimed to have grownup with Ato Dawit, but who is in Addis Ababa now, denied the allegation that was described in Fiameta and the rumor in Geneva, by saying "far from truth.".
"Dawit Asegdom (Dawit Agame) is Tigrean and not Eritrean by birth; he didn't serve Shaebia..
Had he said to favor Weyane (TPLF), it was likely..
I can speak of his anti-Shaebiyan position," he said..
Nonetheless, Ethiopians in Geneva haven't even now, accepted Dawit Asegdom representing them, although he was sent by Teferi Meles.
They ruled Eskendir's denial over..
Dawith Asegdom, who came to Ethiopia, is now paying a visit to the Ethiopian Army in Northern Front.
Our efforts to present the facts to our readers will continue by meeting him and interview him about the allegations he was criticized.  "Spy of shaebia".
There are additional issues, which we uncover in out next week edition, about the relationship Ethiopian consulate diplomats, have with Eritrean agents..
The diplomats Mekdes Tewolde,---Berikti Tesfaye, Muse Tesfaye and others are going to be our focus of next week edition..
On the other hand, the issue about aid-money that was to be given to he government and was collected by Ethiopians with their own initiation, is expected to get final decision in their meeting on Monday.
It will come out on our next edition..
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
The Council of Ministers Presented the Next Year's Budget to the Council of Representatives for Approval
The council of EFDR ministers disclosed that if presented a 15 billion 12 million 900 thousand 900 Birr budget for next year to be approved by the council of representatives.
In its disclosure the council issued to ENA, it said that after widely discussing the regular capital budget draft proclamation of the 2002 Federal Government which was presented by the ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation in the 5th urgent meeting it held yesterday, it decided to passed it to the council of representatives with full vote.
The 2002 Regular and Capital Budget preparation is made based on the new budget working procedure ammendment, it disclosed. .
The request budgets and provision of support is based on the country's income capability, the ongoing economic reform program, focusing on poverty reduction, and comparability of executing bodies to implement it. .
The regular and capital budget of the next year is prepared based on the focused direction of the government's general development strategy, and took in to consideration the budget need of each work institutions and the country's financial capability, comparing to the institutions' duties and work responsibilities, it disclosed.
After discussing widely on the draft proclamation, viewing it in detail the budget request presented from these budgetary organizations, and evaluating the 2001 budget execution, taking in to account the federal government's income capability, comparing it with implementation and programs, sent to council of representatives for approval, it disclosed.
The council pointed out that out of the total budget, the money it sent for approval for regular spending was 7 billion 239 million 430 thousand Birr.
And for capita spending it agreed to assign 3 billion 99 million 708 thousand 900 Birr.
Moreover, including Dire Dawa administration, for regions' subsidy it agreed to assign 673 million 842 thousand Birr, it pointed out..
From Addis Zemen June 20, 2001 .
Editorial
Where is the Direction?
EPRDF's press "Abiyotawi Democracy" last week categorized, including Tobia, the free press "gathering of the Defeated and that operate on the support by opposition sides".
In no time more than 10 editors and publishers of newspapers were arrested.
Three weekly newspapers, that is, Ethiop, wenchif and Urji became out of publication.
The solution shouldn't have been additional assault.
Point in at someone saying that he/she works in the free press wouldn't bring about any good.
"who are you?"
a question would follow.
Instead, what's of worth is giving focus on the information and suggestions the free press offered and corrects one's mistakes on time.
Although we took the suggestion as mere gossip of enemies of democracy that can not support itself with tangible evidence, we would still like to make clear one major issue about the publications of Tobia and its publisher, Akpak.
As a member of free press, when Akpak rose to give service to make public, it was confident of the wide and rich experience of its members, as well as truth and quality of the mind.
From the outset, it doesn't hold any grudges against another. .
Based on what the Ethiopian law commands it was establish had by a capital of 15 people, but it is not the property of one or two people.
When Akpak was established as a publisher of press it took as a light of leading principle not forgetting the responsibility it had for the public, not including favoring political organizations in its work, rather focus on public awareness.
As those sides who do not wish the strengthening of democracy and free press claim, there is no part of the public or party the publication of Akpak favors.
They are forums of free ideas.
It would perform its tasks today and in the future sticking to this principle.
Indeed since it holds the ideas of wide country rather than narrow area, unity rather than difference, love rather than hat red and grudges and since it doesn't accept racial politics, the beneficiaries of the present wind may not like it.
If through the conspiracy anti-press and anti-democratic forces it encounters peril, we won't have tears to shed for there are many young Ethiopians who have made their positions clear to make democracy reign, to serve the mistreated people.
Ethiopia usually gives birth after birth to children who would sacrifice for her.
And the fact that she delivers is being openly witnessed.
Among those who suffer from this regime, became victims of attack and professionals, who frequent hardship, the army of the press is the first and the main one.
Free press is the central pillar and mainstay of democracy.
Free press means the enemy of dictatorial regime.
It means exposing and struggling the injustice and power corruptors.
Therefore, the more the free press members are imprisoned and suffered, the better they feel about their performance that they display with great sacrifice.
They feel proud, not ashamed about it.
When ever dictators tossed and turned, the press they established for the purpose of fanning perfidy and releasing poisonous propaganda cried over nothing, it seems to us that the many journalists who are imprisoned would be consoled.
It is known that we are found in a regime where the prisoners are mostly prisoners of conscience, leaders of political organizations and members, as well as journalists who are conscience of the public.
This situation hasn't changed or improved from day to day.
Had it improved, it would have given the regime a better look.
Nonetheless, the current government is exposed be fore the world in its human rights violation, lack of democratic characteristics, and in its suppression of free press.
The present Prime Minister Mr. Meles Zenawi, who was mentioned by name as one of the ten enemies of the free press, doesn't make anyone proud.
It's not patriotism.
We found condemnation, not admiration in history for a leader who brought suffering to his own fellow people.
The number of journalists who became victims of police and central investigation and were put to the routine threatening prison cells as of recent weeks are many.
Journalists whom the court hasn't passed verdict and whose life are in the police stations and prisons are getting numerous.
Although the young writers who previously were imprisoned for a year and above and were released have borne the pain, it would be difficult to expect to share the pain an innocent citizen undergoes in prison in vain.
It is an experience to show that the democracy and justice which was said to live in our country is now being ejected.
As if the drama which was played in the pretext to law was not sufficient, the newspaper of the ruling party, government, so-called press of organizations attempted to spread malicious gossips and back biting calling the free press and journalists by name.
This doesn't allow the fifth row press that "suppresses" the benefit, security and unity of the people to have legality as well as publicity.
We know what these groups who say "We are journalists; we are the ones who present the right news; we are discharging the duties of the press" are practically performing.
The Ethiopian people, too, know it well.
However we don't think the hired ones know themselves.
We don't miss the fact that the malicious gossip they spread mentioning legal organizations and journalists by name has been the mission and duty they were given from their bosses.    .
Their direction is towards destroying the free press through propaganda as well as using force, so fellow people who say that they stand for the people and democracy, should know it in advance.
It is impossible to think of democracy without free press.
It's not possible to prove being a democrat suppressing and weakening the free press.
From Tobia October 30, 1997
It was Assured Again that the Economic Aim of Revolutionary Democracy is Capitalism
It was disclosed that the economic aim of Revolutionary Democracy being capitalism was proved again in the meeting held in Addis Ababa to evaluate the 10 year struggle of EPRDF.
In a statement the spokesperson of the meeting gave yesterday, it was unambiguously stated in the 1995 EPRDF plenary session that Ethiopia is following capitalism or building the capitalist regime, and now, too it has been assured again that the EPRDF's economic aim is building capitalism..
As a result, the economic development strategy of EPRDF makes the regions and farmers central where all development forces participate and the majority of the people. At each level becomes beneficiary and where speedy progress would be registered, the spokesperson pointed out..
To this end, the crucial role is that of the people and the investor while the government focuses on establishing infrastructures, arranging the control and follow-up and building the implementation capacity of the leadership who are engaged in development activities of regions, zones and districts, it was pointed out..
The comparative economic freedom would be assured in this economic path an EPRDF's development path being capitalist, it made the Ethiopian farmer who constitutes 85 percent and the regions central, the spokesperson disclosed. .
And this would enable the wide participation of capitalists of the country, develop government's role and would give special focus on backward areas, which has comparative freedom..
However, the mixed outlook held by members was not made to be amended, so there was a situation where the previous outlook was seen in daily lives, and important discussion was underway with regards to the outlook issue, it disclosed.  .
This evaluation meeting which started on June 19 is discussing on various topics, among which the essence of revolutionary Democracy, problems created in EPRDF and inclinations of sinking as well as the 10 year evaluation of executive body.
Around the first agenda, the historical process of Revolutionary Democracy and the stage EPRDF has reached how was presented in a report and wide discussion was held on it.
In the presented explanation, it was reminded that the main ideology the forces which EPRDF embraced during the time of military struggle followed played crucial role to enable the struggle reach its destination.
This program enabled to Ethiopia throw away the military dictatorial government, and for the first time in our country, it enabled to build a constitutional regime that was directly approved by the people's participation, it was pointed out.
Nevertheless, it called for amendment with the new world and national situation, and this had been completed in the medium and general discussions held in the years before 1995, seen in the evaluation the spokesperson pointed out.
The next meeting will be on the topic the Political Aim of Revolutionary Democracy.
From Addis Zemen June 22, 2001
The Ethiopian United Front Discussed in Amsterda.
The Ethiopian United Front (EUF) General Secretary, Mr. Mersha Yoseph reminded that the task of the current political forces is to put pressure on TPLF government to make it give proper responses to the basic questions of the Ethiopian people..
Mr. Mersha expressed this during his speech at the public meeting Ethiopian United Font (EUF) support committee prepared recently for Ethiopians living in Holland, Amsterdam town.
In addition, speakers who were present and gave explanations on the occasion were Dr. Mamo Muche and Mr. Abrham Yayen..
In this meting Yoseph said that the TPLF government paves a conducive ground not only for the Secession of Eritrea but also for the strengthening of EPLF and the act of aggression it has taken recently on Ethiopia, and he continued that, without taking tangible measures to correct the blunder he did on the country and people, it couldn't take out Ethiopia from the abysmal hole of war it put Ethiopia.
More over he explained that the role of opposition organizations should be focused on, leaving aside the struggle for basic changes, and stop running to be the extension of TPLF government, strengthening their unity, creating a conducive situation where political prisoners are going to be released urgently, the rights to freely organize and operate and express ideas are going to be respected, and where all-embracing national discussion come together to collaboratively solve the main political problems, and to urge TPLF to make changes.
Mr. Mersha Yosef, concluding his speech underscored that unless the TPLF government urgently gives clear and unambiguous responses to these secondary questions, the Ethiopian United Front (EUF) would be obliged to reconsider the unilateral cease-fire measure it was taken for the last six months, for the sake of opening a door for peaceful negotiation.
The second speaker, Dr. Mamo Muche, explained that the aggression is waged against the honor and freedom of Ethiopia, so in order to break EPLF's conceit and end the war victoriously in favor of Ethiopian people, all of us have national obligation to do whatever we can, he expressed his call.
Mr. Abrham Yayeh, on his part explained in detail the relationship EPLF and TPLF had before and after the hold power.
The TPLF government, apart from support, directly struggled for the secession of Eritrea, he recalled.
Mr. Abrham Yayeh said that although the referendum that is to be held in Eritrea would be concluded according to what Eritrean people choose, Unity, Federation or Freedom, EPLF cancelled the referendum it lay before and restricted the options in to slavery of freedom, where TPLF didn't show any opposition, and he pointed that the TPLF leaders didn't show any effort to resolve the border conflict.
Finally, he said the TPLF leaders were rather making their effort to divide Ethiopia for the last seven years, than doing something worthy for the benefit of the nation as a whole.
And cooperating with them without preconditions would bring about dangerous results even if the idea of uniting the nation is presented kind-heartedly, he reminded..
After the three speakers gave responses and suggestions for the many questions raised by the participants of the meeting, the program was concluded at 6 o'clock in the evening.
From Fiameta July 28, 1999
A Holy Father who was given a Name as "Heretic" Condemned the Act
A Holy Father by the name Aba Ketsela Mengistu who has been serving in Ethiopian Orthodox Church at different parishes in Gospel services, and who was called heretic by a tabloid which is named "Sematsedk" condemned it by saying that calling me "heretic" is just a devil's talk..
It is known that hatred that sustained between the two sides of the Orthodox Church has been aggravating, clouds of concern hung in the minds of many church people that this might shake the unified pillar of the Church.
Aba Ketsela who sent the details of accusations charged against many children of the church, not excluding himself, quoting sematsedk newspaper, condemned it, is now living in North America, Canada as Head of Preaching Gospel Department with the Ethiopian Orthodox Church..
I was saddened by what was written about me as heretic in 1998.
I served the church by my skills that are teaching presentation, song, poetry, sacrificial songs..
After I became a monk, I reached from priesthood to elder priest and I never declined form serving the Orthodox Church..
And at the moment in North America (Canada) where I live, I am the Son of the Orthodox church who indulged in preaching gospel and I'm not heretic, and I want to disclose that the disseminated news against me is fruitless, he said..
The news which reached us crossing different continents broadly details Aba Ketsela's grievance against his being called heretic, who said Bishop Merha Kirstos and Bishop Nathnael are my all-time witnesses who taught me the secret of Flesh, the content of the Bible and its interpretations..
"Aba" who has served in preaching the gospel in Miskaye Hazunan Medhanealm monastery and other parishes in Addis Ababa for so many years, and when moved to Canada he was really sad for hearing about his being called heretic and put forward a message reminding the Christian congregation not to be misled by the gossip around.
There are some who claimed that this false allegation of being heretic on many people including Aba Ketsela in not only the problems of the individuals but it is the problem that gradually came to the Orthodox Church..
Most of the people charged in the aforesaid tabloid, were not only suspended from work and salary, but also places like Debre Libanos Monastery too, was disturbed, and changed to land of blood (Akeladam) in August 1998, the insiders are talking about it.
What astounded most was not the aggravation of revengeful enmity between the two sides, but the fact that the church officials didn't want to take any take any decisions..
This problem the religious problem which that is now considered as simple is feared that it may turn out to be difficult, he said.
If those regarded heretic are really found to be so, first like the fore-fathers a congregation would be called and there if they do not confess their sins and return, church would officially declare their sanctions otherwise concerned orthodox bodies say that if church becomes negligent of all these and let people to be sent in exile, applying the principle of "thorn by the thorn" would make it unable to withstand the enemy force within..
This dangerous situation within the Orthodox Church which hasn't been settled for more than half a year now, but is just waiting time to catch fire has saddened those who have true orthodox love.
The religious organization who want these eloquent people with wide knowledge of the church but were violently shoved by church leaders are man, and hence, authorities in the Orthodox Church should have given urgent resolve for such kind of religious controversies..
But as if Orthodox Church is without owner, it's regrettable to see no one whose sympathizer whenever a problem arises.           .
The clergy who controls the two sides hasn't said anything against the so-called heretic or the accusers.
Nor is there any officials statement that comes out of her, she's still soun asleep..
The fight between each other has surpassed the country and continued overseas..
Therefore, Aba Ketsela Mengistu, who lives abroad condemned his defamation from where believes..
This discord between the two orthodox followers unless it gets remedy from now, it is not difficult to predict that the process is going to bring about harm to the church.  .
From Fiameta September 25, 1998
"To Make His Love Steady with the Catholics.
The patriarch's Journey to Romania Brought Criticism!
Years have elapsed since he was greeted with storms of oppositions as well as criticisms.
However, the patriarch staggeringly clings to his authority, despite all these criticism and sarcasm, for he has become used to them.
The oppositions as they are, the patriarch's journey to Romania last week has been a corridor talk among the clergy..
Among the criticisms suggested with regards to his journey is the fact that no other religious leader goes to such an annual assembly sponsored by Catholic Church, except being represented; although various religious groups are invited apart from Christians, in this annual conference which is said to be organized for world peace, it was embarrassing for Ethiopian Orthodox church to be represented by its patriarch while others sent their representatives, the report stated.
The clergy who said "To make his love steady with the Catholics", also criticized the message he relayed as he went overseas, and termed it "lacking truth and unexpected form a holy father".
He lied when he said he was called by Romanian Patriarch and President and tried to camouflage the truth, for the annual assembly that has so far been represented only by high priests. .
Sources who knew about this annual preaching and prayer session which is sponsored by Catholic Church, in the name of world peace, and held at different places every year, more than 30 denominations and other religions like Islam would be represented but not by their leaders
These are not the only criticisms showered on the patriarch.
Rather than nominally and symbolically sitting with Ato Simon Mechale and count aid money for the current national problem, some say it would have been much fruitful if he went overseas and collect aid for our follow victims..
Although some who saw him on the national TV receiving aid wondered why he doesn't rather go overseas to collect aid, those who knew the secret that made him lose heart repeatedly stated that he won't ever take his leg abroad, where Ethiopians live, for he doesn't want anymore damaged eggs to be thrown at him.
He was confident with his recent trip to Romania he was fully cognizant of the fact that these aren't as many Ethiopians there..
It has been heard that patriarch was quoted as saying that "the war and famine that befell upon the Tigrean People just after they opposed him", is the rage of his sadness and prayer.
As close sources disclose, many personnel in the clergy were very saddened with this remark, and infact, in one tabloid, he was quoted as saying "on the morrow of their opposition against me, they were bombed..
Because Tigrean people are sensitive to their religion, respectful of their history, and have steadfast faith, it would consider the patriarch's outpouring far from trust and embarrassing..
Aba Paulos, who went to Romania together with his personal, friend Aba Germia, with the church money, would have gone to Tigray during this turbulent time and with an apology could have showed solidarity and expressed sympathy, however, it seems out of revenge, that he hasn't stepped on the soil of Tigray for so many months how, told those groups who felt the suffering of Tigray..
From Fiameta, September 6, 1998
Ethiopia Didn't Receive Egyptian Aid!
The Egyptian Ambassador said, "We don't know the reason"
Various comments were for warded in relation to Egyptian government's material aid to Eritrea..
With regards to this, we asked Egyptian Ambassador to Ethiopia, Marwan Bedir, in an interview he gave us in Embassy..
Thanking him for his cooperation, we presented here part of the interview..
Fiameta: Mr. Ambassador, recently you gave aid to Eritrean government..
But when you wanted to give similar aid to Ethiopia, it was reported that you were given no response..
Which body said we won't receive this aid? What was the reason.
Ambassador Marwan Bedir: we don't know why they said they won't receive the aid; as to the body who refreshed the offer, we disclosed in our press statement.
Fiameta: Anyway, how was the aid to be conducted?
Ambassador: On our side, we have an interest to cooperatively work with other African countries..
We have 320 experts working in different African countries.  Among these more than half are doctors..
Our request to offer the help and cooperation the kind of doctors Ethiopia need didn't get response..
Last time at the bomb blast in Nairobi we offered similar help..
Our minister of health himself went to Nairobi..
The minister is a surgeon..
For people who need plastic surgery, he took them with his people to Cairo and did the surgery himself..
We cooperate in all sectors with other African countries..
But Ethiopia wasn't willing..
For those who give us positive response, we do the necessary cooperation..
Unless it's exaggerated due to the clash Eritrea has with Ethiopia, what's wrong with one county helping another? For example, Italy and Germany helped millions of dollars to Eritrea and they are still helping..
Nobody mentions this European aid..
We don't know why the Egyptian part is magnified..
Wh doesn't appropriate news apply to Egypt?.
It's very disappointing..
As yet, with our relations to Ethiopia, it's the Addis Ababa University and colleges that give us positive responses..
For the medical aid we provide now, the ministry of foreign affairs and Ministry of Health haven't provided us response..
Fiameta: Instead of putting your request through the ministry of foreign affairs, why don't you directly give for the Relief and Rehabilitation commission who's responsible for this?
Ambassador: Our relation is with ministry of foreign affairs..
We don't want to make things complicated again..
According to our common working practice, our situation and quest should be responded by ministry of foreign affairs..
We have up to now good relations..
The problem is we didn't get quick response..
On our side, we would continue the help we provide for Ethiopia, he responded..
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
Ethio-Eritrean Boarder Demarcation Begins from the East
Ethiopian and Eritrean border demarcation begins from the past, United Nations news source, IRIN, disclosed.
IRIN quoting the discussion held between the two higher bodies in London last week, pointed out that the disclosure of the border demarcation that was said to start from the east was made during the London meeting the independent Ethio-Eritrean border demarcation commission prepared.
IRIN quoting close diplomatic sources to the process also reported the fact that the border demarcation that covers one thousand kilometers begins in the east is within the liking of Ethiopia.
In the London meeting United Nation Mission for Ethio-Eritrea (UNMEE) head and representative of the general secretary, Kofi Anan, Legwala Joseph was present..
In the Ethio-Eritrean of border demarcation that was made official in April last year, it was to be recalled that additional clear explanation was asked on the different areas of western sides including Bademe.
The Ethio-Eritrea border demarcation would be carried out in the coming May, it was to be recalled.
From Addis Zemen February 20, 2003
Artist Jiji Presented a Special concert in Athens to Express Appreciation to Athlete.
A special Music Festival that enabled the gathering of many Ethiopians was conducted in Athens which is hosting the 28th Olympiad competition.
Reuters reported yesterday that in a music festival that was conducted on Saturday night the star artist was the popular singer Ejigayehu Shibabaw (Jiji).
Jiji who appeared in a white traditional dress and beautified with golden jewelries spend the night praising the former and the current Olympic winners.
In music festival conducted at Galazio Night Club in Athens, Major Haile Gebre Selassie as well as athelete Kenenisa Bekele and Sileshi Sehen who astonished the world in the ten thousand metes competition were present.  .
"The special program that took place at Kipseli," and in an area where most Ethiopians live, not less than 300 people were gathered.
In the Saturday's victory-news night, the audience couldn't help but dance standing from their seats being immersed with Jiji, who is born for an art and with her majestic movements and grandiloquent voice.
This music festival night, in which the Saturday's victory-news of the athletes was reflected, left an unforgettable memory for Ethiopians.
It also was a night that witnessed music and sports have international characteristics.  .
It was disclosed that athlete Kenenisa, followed by his country fellow athlete Sileshi, completed the Athens ten thousand meters in 27 minutes 05.10 second, registering a new record..
From Addis Zemen August 27, 2004
New Historical relics were found at around the place where obelisk of Axum Stoo.
The United Nations Education, Science and cultural organization (UNESCO) disclosed that it has discovered new historical sites at around the place where the obelisk of Axum and at other Axum sites where international relics were registered.
In the statement UNESCO disclosed yesterday, the new historical relies were discovered last week by he team of experts which was sent by UNESCO to help fix the obelisk of Axum.
According to Elizzbeth Wangari an expert of UNESCO's Centre for Relics, and Jum William, member of the organization's International Historical Relics, the newly found relics which were discovered at a location the obelisk of Axum previously stood, were different rooms and graves of emperors.
In the area of these new discoveries, there are several graves of emperor, it was proved through the study made by various experts of the team, the statement disclosed.
When Kochiro Matu Sura UNESCO's Director heard the news of the new discovery, he said that the fact that the discovered relics are grave yards become "a great and useful discovery", expressing his admiration.
The phenomenon that was brought about by the trial not only invites researchers to work more, it would make Axum an international centre for relics research, the statement of UNESCO pointed out, and this in turn, would have great contribution to Ethiopian Tourism economic development, it stated.
Foldofo Fatovich, leader of the geological research higher experts' team expressed that especially the graveyard discoveries would be studied deeply at a laboratory institution in one university in Italy.
The following graveyard researches would be done with Italian and Ethiopian governments full recognition and permission, UNSCO disclosed.        .
The expert team that came to Ethiopia to help fix the obelisk of Axum possesses modern hi-tech instruments that look in to the earth's situation easily, including the radar of the earth, and collect information, it was pointed out.
From Addis Zemen April 27, 2005
More than Three Hundred International Observers are Said to be Engaged.
In the May election more than three hundred international observers are said to be engaged, the chairman of the Ethiopian National Electoral Board disclosed.
Mr. Kemal Bedri, the chairman, in the statement he gave to local and international journalists yesterday disclosed that international observers are represented from African Union, European Union, Arab League and Carter Center as well as from embassies of different countries.
Among the ones who asked to observe the election and that have diplomatic missions, American, Japan, China, India and Turkey embassies, the chairman pointed out. .
In this year's election, 319 international observers got permissions up to now; Japan and China embassies have interest to engage additional observers other than the ones whom they assigned earlier, he disclosed.
Regarding local observers, those who have assuredly got permission as yet are three religious organizations, he pointed out..
On the other hand, the board reminded that any decision related to the election process that political parties give in the electoral offices should respect the ethics of election activities which the board releases accordingly..
No candidate could place its poster and its symbol of candidacy out of the regions it competes.
Within a 500 diameter of a polling station it is forbidden to carry out political agitation, the instruction the board released pointed out. .
From Addis Zemen May 3, 2005
"The Failure to Accept the Peace Plans by Shaebia /EPLF/ Despite a Number of Mediation Efforts Seems to Lead the Situation to War."
Aregawi Berh.
The various mediation efforts to peacefully resolve the Ethiopian and Eritrean clashes starting from United States of America and Ruwanda up to OAU, including reknown personalities like Wole Soyinka and General Gebre Hiwot failed.
Therefore, the situation seems to lead to war, said former Weyane /TPLF/ military section member Aregawi Berhe.
The two sides are not fighting over border issues but over other matter, and never have Beademe and all others been Eritrean's, he assured..
The cause of the conflict of EPLF and TPLF is the fact that EPRDF has remained for seven years with out having endorsed the International law, he said.
With regards to fighting efficiency of the two sides, Aregawi Berhe expressed that EPLF is giving training its defeated soldiers with Yemen, while EPRDF did no activity then..
However, within a short time it made a great change, the fight which is going to take place after now is not a gorilla one, but a modern war where the two sides fight from their own barracks, and hence, there won't be a winner, underscored Aregawi Berhe..
On the other hand, the Eritreans could go out forcefully, but unless a lasting remedy is sought, the war continues, warns Aregawi.       .
From Fiameta February 5, 1999
The Green Flood is drying-up – The sole Hero is Facing a Great Challenge against Lucky-Winning Kenyan.
Since the heroic athlete captain Abebe Bikila came out victorious in Rome Olympic, athletics has become the identity card of Ethiopians, but lately weakened and while the Green Flood was on its way to dry-up, the sole hero Haile Gebreselassie is at present facing a great challenge against the lucky-winning Kenyans.
Last Tuesday, Ethiopia's jewel in Germany, Colon city, in a 5,000 meter race, he stood first in 12 minutes 55.4 seconds.
Although Daniel Comen didn't compete in this race four other Kenyans challenged Haile.
Out of these Kenyans, Paul Coch and Tom Niyark come out second and third.
In the suggestion he gave the Reuters' reporter said, "Haile knows exactly what he does in Germany Capital.
He'll attempt to bring back the record he was snatched from his in 5,000 meter race."
Said, it was to be recalled.
The young Comen too didn't hide Haile's great athleticism.
After breaking the record held by Haile in Brussels, Greenpree, "The person who can break my record is going to be only Haile.
And this doesn't worry me.
I am still a growing youth.
I have much time to break additional records."
He said.
In this Greenpree race Haile was snatched his 10,000 meters record.
The one who snatched Haile's 10,000 meters record was Paul Tergat of Kenya.
The victories of Kenyans were not only these.
Apart from registering second place in 5,000 and 10,000 meters by Thomas Itark and Paul Kochi, respectively, the Kenyans have become record holders in men's 800 and 3,000 meters.
While in a race he didn't compete he was snatched two records, in 3000 meters he became victorious.
He stood victorious in this race finishing in 7 minutes 26.2 second.
The Ethiopian jewel and who, at this time is given a name "one for its mother", have given an interview to Tobia newspaper with regards to the snatching of records, which he said "I am in a struggle.
In athletics or any other race you break one record at one time, and it would be snatched from you at another time..
Since the athletics competition is like a process of struggle, it's in this kind of situation that we continue.
As far as I can, I wouldn't sit idly because one record is being snatched from me.
As long as I possibly could, continuing my struggle, I will make effort to bring back the victory," he said.
And as he said, he's in a struggle.
From Tobia, 4th year No. 35 August 28, 199.
"Both the Right and Left Came to a Head"
The Patriarch took too much to heart (?)
Aba Paulos, who's told to have religious fallacy and disrupt the church's dogma, and spoiled the administration of the clergy, was now heard as saying they won't get in to the clergy as long as they are in opposition with me.
The news source who were close to the patriarch pointed out that the patriarch said that those who publicly defame my reputation and be against me day after day, and my enemies who made me unpopular and hated among people would never tread on around the clergy in my leadership time..
The opposition stands also, even much grave than the patriarch, was not to go along with and work in fellowship with a leader that has a religious fallacy and one who's a reason for embezzlement of the church's money and property, an actor for administrative abuse, and only a nominal leader; we don't want to be blamed for and be accountable by history, and we won't be trapped by someone who's uncomfortable to us.
and up to this time in the Ethiopian orthodox church it has not been heard a patriarch taking photograph with a lady, putting down his cap, Aba Paulos is the first one, said the opposition, publicly condemning the act.
Aba Paulos who is told as being under the influence of fleshy obstinacy, and, as a result, gave deaf ears to his opposition's request, although he speaks that the church in his time is disturbed, it was told that he doesn't want to seek resolve..
With regards to the snapshots he had at different times after he was ordained bishop and put in the tabloids, "Am I the only sinner?
They collect my photographs and put them on the tabloids," he told in a congregation, the sources mentioned. .
The oppositions, however, concluded that such kind of a person can never lead or administer the church.
The sources indicated that the position of both sides have come to the head.
The close sources were heard as saying that the patriarch, Aba Paulos said that instead of trying to negotiate me with oppositions in Ethiopia, it's much better if you do so with my oppositions abroad, (like Aba Melke Tsedek); and revealed that he doesn't want any peace negotiation with the oppositions.
From Fiameta June 3, 1998
While Sudan is "Anti-Human" the others are the good Samaritans?.
A few years ago, it used to be a political capacity (fad) to present American, especially American Imperialism as the world's chief enemy.
The American politicians used to tactfully respond to the criticism directed at them from all directions "Never mind, leave the blame on American Shoulder."
At the time when two superpowers (America and Soviet Union) monopolized the world political forum, there were times when the second and third world people were heard shouting under the influence of them.
Whatever the case, imperialism has never been a friend of he oppressed people.
Instead, its hands are soaked with blood parading with dictators and oppressors being their source of strength for the extermination, suffering and misfortune of people.
Today the world population is found under the shoes of the imperialist sovereign power, having the other sovereign power government (order) that is Soviet Union falling as a result of its internal contradiction.
It's governed by that order's regulations, by that regime's political values.
The measures taken at international level would testify this.
We don't think that the phenomena that would happen in the future do not seem to be any different.
The new African dictators are ousting the former African rulers (those who were termed experienced and wise) through military force.
As it was reported in our last week newspaper, these new rulers who were recruited based on by their distant wariorship and American benefit-keepers, apart from executing their tasks for which they were assigned, started looking other countries' leaders (those who were never than them) as spiritual son and look forward to their friendship.
That's why American government authorities said, "You've passed far beyond the expected limit.
It's too much."
they are saying to them.
At the beginning of last year, President Clinton imposed an economic sanction on Sudan to alienate the Sudanese government from the world population and governments.
What was the reason given?
The first one was the Sudanese government which holds fast to radical Muslim has become threatening to its neighboring counties; the second was it violates human rights; these were the accusations forwarded;
we won't stand against this on the court just because Sudan was charged with this accusation.
May be we condemn together what that government does mostly with regards to corrupting power and violation of human rights.
Yet, what are those "new" adopted children who felt the warmth of American wing doing?
Could they be teachers to the Sudanese government with regards to their respect to human rights?
They fulfill the requirements of one dictatorship over the other.
Hitler himself used to regret for he didn't learn tricks of suppression from Stalin!
In the October 25, 1997 issue of the Washington Post newspaper, fur Americans who knew president Kabila since 1975, and victims of his suppression, protested loudly against their government for giving recognition to the former leader of fighting.
Condemned, too.
They even exposed that their policy has no moral in lulling Kabila whom once was regarded "terrorist dangerous individual".
On the other hand, it played a great role in ousting Mobutu who used to be "fattened dictator" of imperialism for thirty-two years.
Why?
Asking such question seems to be tough.
However, the ending of all dictators who used to be advocates of the sovereign power regimes was not any different, so the answer would be found in that history.
Sudan is accused of human rights violation and heedless of human lives.
What are the ruler of her neighboring countries, Ethiopia and Eritrea, are doing?
This question is not liked, the workers have no right, the journalists were imprisoned, and teachers are massacred in broad-day light, the business people were befallen harm because they appealed, "all are politics.
It's the EHRF's politics", we know before hand that this is what they say.
No American diplomat's eye can see such kind of an act.
For the sake of justice and to be suitable for Judging through conscience, if the anti-human act that is in Sudan, could also be seen in Ethiopia and Eritrea it would have acceptability.
When we say Sudan interfered with Ethiopian and Eritrean issues, the balance should not be inclined unfairly when considering how much TPLF and EPLF interfered in Sudan.
How can the eye which see that was unable to gaze at this one.
From Tobia November 13, 1997
Ethiopian Telecommunication Corporation Disclosed that it's Property that Costs 5 Million Birr was Destroyed.
Due to the blaze and plundering on its west Addis Ababa office on April 18, 2001, Ethiopian Telecommunication Corporation be fell around 50 million Birr loss and couldn't give service for its 23 thousand clients.
In a communiqué it issued yesterday, 43 thousand lines digital stations, 10 line analog station, power giving bill information, files, computers and various tools as well as 10 vehicles, building parts an office materials some all in all, and others partially burned, resulting in up to 50 million Birr loss, Solomon Getachew reported quoting the communiqué.
What has been understood from the communiqué is that 23 thousand customers have fully lost service.
6 thousand customers at Kolfe and Shegole area couldn't make external calls, apart form the internal calls.
The corporation expressed that it needs a lot of work force, money and long time so as to do well again, and this would lag the efforts it started to reach the different parts of the country giving its services, the communiqué disclosed.
Finally, it would do its level best to restart the services that has been disrupted and cognizant of this, it reminded its customers to wait patiently..
From Addis Zemen April 21, 200.
The News that Ethiopian army Controlled "Bakol" was Disclosed to be False.
The news that BBC broadcasted as Ethiopian army who were armed with machine guns penetrated to Somalian land and controlled "Bakol" area the day before yesterday, was false, Ethiopian ministry of Foreign Affair, press chief Directorate disclosed. .
Quoting what it said was Somalian Deputy Minister of Defense, Mohammud Mohammed, in its news report dispatched at 4 O'clock in Arabic language, the radio said Somalia sent troops to the area which was said to be seized, but on the side of Ethiopia no statement was given, it said..
However, the Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Chief Directorate of press, tonight disclosed to Ethiopian News Agency that let alone army supported by machine guns we don't have a single defense army in Somalia land..
The chief Directorate pointed out that since more than any other one the Somali people know it well why the Arta group wanted to continuously accuse Ethiopia, the Ethiopian government doesn't give value to this concocted story.
From Addis Zemen June 9, 2001
Message of Fiameta!
Attempting to Look Down on and Bypass People's Complaints is Exposing Oneself to Disgrace!
Be it in religious or worldly administration,one who claims that he administers people has to hear people's complaints, and rather than resolving, dismissing them with contempt would lead one up to dishonor.
It has been years since complaints have been forwarded to the leadership of the synod from the priests, congregation and Ethiopian Orthodox Church, and now that it is the eve of the new year, they are still shouting their complaints..
Those who controlled the leadeship, except looking people in contempt,have no intention of responding to the priests and people's queries.
Their scornful eyes and hardened heart lack vision and understanding and, hence, are blinded; there would have been many muracles during their reign, unless, of course, their hearts were hardened.
Yet, they haven't become lucky to ask the Christian people apology, whom they did wrong.
As a result, just like "Faroah", clinging to their conceited conscience,looking down upon every body, their downfall is inevitable.
Hence, attempting to look down on people's complaints is dishonoring oneself, God will show us himself their ends, of those who look God's people contemptuously, so let's just wait and see His work.
For works beyond our capacity, let's give him the responsibility to do them Himself.
Let's give Him time to work.
When he shows us the completed work, we will be pleased.
He will show us, His people, crossing the sea of suffering while those with hard-heart together with their troops, sink, so let's wait  God's work patiently .
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
The Bidding Farewell of Producers of Fiameta Newspape.
We feel sad to fall short while it's possible to work numerous things.
The producers and editors of Fiameta newspaper, Dawit Kebede and Biruk Kebede, are among the modern Ethiopians who have greatly contributed to the free press.
They worked a lot, made a lot of efforts...but their fruits of labor became suffering in TPLF/EPRDF prisons.
What the editors time and again are saying is "Let's save the next generation sacrificing our lives today..
And this is something expected from a truthful and strong Ethiopian and, hence, this is a saying that makes one proud.
However, nobody wants them to be the only one who should take the sacrifice, and we who work with them at Fiameta news papers wanted to share their pain...so we decided to be with them.
Especially, on the publisher and Editor-in-chief, Mr. Dawit Kebede, measures have been taken starting from being kidnapped by special bodies that TPLF/EPRDF trained up to being imprisoned in an underground cell.
At the moment, more than twelve charges have been filed against him and he's being disputing his case and paid in hundred thousands for bail.
Nevertheless, the decision the judges passed even now on him to stay behind bars at the central police is a witness as to what the final verdict could be on the editor.
The editor of the newspapers Dawit Bekele didn't want to discontinue his job and career even while he's in the midst to this difficult testing period.
Although working with devotion and with clear purpose is basic characteristic of Ethiopians in general, we don't want him to pay unnecessary sacrifice.
That's why we decided that the two siblings, Dawit Kebede and Biruk Kebede, be temporarily withdrawn from this career and we want the friends of Fiameta, in the county and overseas to realize this.
We want to use this opportunity to disclose that our producer and editior-in-chier is a life-long member of the International Press Institute, member of media and Information in the United Nations, ECA, and the executive member and public relations Officer of the Free Press Journalist Association.
From Fiameta December 30, 1999
Bishop Paulos Traveled to Tigray!
One who paves the way is Bishop Kerlo.
Bishop Paulos who has been at logger heads for a long time with Tigrean priests and laity and who hasn't stepped on to the area for years traveled to Tigray at the end of last week.
In order to know whether the people would accept or not the one who traveled first to Tigray was Bishop Kerlos.
Archi bishop Ephrem the head of northern Shoa office of national preaching, Pastor Berhanu Gebre Amanuel, pastor knife Gabriel Altaye, Mr. Wosenseged, Mr. Tekabe berhe and together with others of the surrounding native dwellers facilitated bishop Paulos' travel by going before him, the news that reached us from the clergy pointed out.
Then after through the call of individuals who had gone before him, Bishop Paul went there and he on his part was accompanied by 8 bishops, and reported that a part from this nothing has been known as yet as to the discontinued relationship of Tigray people that lasted over two years and the future relationship of Bishop Paulos.
Efforts are being made to divide the people and the priests, some internal sources pointed out.
It's told that the patriarch has a plan to stay there until November 29, 2000, (the date where the Axum Mary church is celebrated).
Until this news is ready for print, nothing was known as to what happened to the dissension they had.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
Abiye Zergaw and Other Artists went on a Military Mission to Sherer.
It is to be recalled that recently Tilahun Gesses, Mohammud Ahemed and Tamerat Mola went to Northern war front and presented line songs among the military that are used for agitation..
After Tilahun and collegues, Abiye Zergaw and other artists were the ones that talk their steps, the report it reached us explained..
This group which includes may famous vocalists and artists, aboard Ethiopia Airlines on August 18, 1998 landed at Shire Hotel after an hour and half flight, stayed there for some time and moved to the front, it was disclosed..
The surrounding dwellers have given them a very tumultuous welcome when they were moving to Sheraro. .
Except soldiers who were in the barricade at the battle front, many people including the surrounding dwellers were present in the concert..
We were told from the place that on that date Ramid Band presented very warm songs..
In this concert, Manalebish Dibo (Asa Belew), daughter of Birtukan Kubale (Meselu), Berhanu Tezera and Tadele Roba of Lafontain and other vocalists presented their songs..
Among the comedian, Engida Zer Nega, Asres Bekele entertained the people, it was disclosed..
Families of Abiye Zergaw whom are known to be Solomon Alemu, Derebwork Seifu (Fanaye), Serawit Fikre (Abiye Zergaw) and others were in the front..
(We will present the details in the future.    .
From Fiameta August 30, 1998
"Dr. Fisseha has wasted our time and money in vain," a student at Unity College  .
Since Unity College recently disclosed to students in the institution and parents that it increased its education fee by more than 50%, the protest against Dr. Fisseha and the school is aggravating seriously different information pointed out.
From the information Kokeb newspaper tried to gather by talking to the college student and parents, not only did students and their parents condemn the measure Dr. Fisseha take, but also are preparing to have public demonstration recently to disclose their problems to the community.
Especially, a student who came from a certain region leaving his work and wanted to remain unanimous, said with regards to the additional payment, "Dr. Fisseha has wasted our time and money in vain", regretting that he couldn't be either at his work or at school.
The parents whom we talked regarding the situation responded, "We don't have the capability to pay the added amount of money the college' asking now.
However, as we don't want the previously paid school fee for our childern to be wasted, we would be taking measure in the light of the law," they explained.
Our repeated attempt to talk to Dr. Fisseha failed, so we could not understand the cause for the increase of the school fee, by the side of the college.
From Kokeb January 21, 200.
The Charges CUD filed against Prime Minister Meles is ordered to be given judgment after it's cleaned up by the Federation Counci.
The charge coalition for Unity and Democracy filed against Prime Minister of the Federal government, Meles Zenawi, was ordered to be given judgment after it's cleaned up by constitutional clearing up assembly of the Federation council..
The Federal First Instance Court Second civil code court session yesterday gave its judgment stating that the rule prime Minster Meles declared on May 15, 2005 violates the constitution..
Since it violates the privilege proclamation no.3/83 gives to demonstrate, conduct a meeting and organize, it gave the judgment based on the charge CUD field to lift the rule..
The Court of Session viewed the presented appeal with proper laws and found out the case needs constitutional interpretation.          .
Hence, since the body responsible for deciding, after clearing-up, is the constitutional clear-up assembly of the Federation council, the court passed a judgment to send this case to the assembly so that in its power to decide whether the rule Prime Minister declared violated the constitution or not.
From Addis Zemen June 4, 2005
Fiameta Newspaper was accused due to the Two Presidents' Accusations, it was disclosed
1st Accusation – you've dishonored the name of Dr. Negasso Gidad.
2nd Accusation – you've insulted the Acting President of AAPO as rotten egg
The recurrent accusation on Fiameta newspaper is continuing.
It's to be recalled that never ever has been heard or seem of eleven accusations in the press law, and recently due to the accusations of the two presidents, additional charges have been filed against the editor-in-chief of Fiameta newspaper.
This makes the overall charges to rise in to thirteen.
This kind of accusation has never been seen or heard of and the measures that are being taken by the government has made it seem as if it was taken to destroy the existence of the newspaper at all.
Up to now, accusations include dishonoring higher officials (including ministers), regional presidents, the acting first president of AAPO, the nation's president religious leaders and patriarch and police college's name and honor have been character-assassinated, incited the people ... made the people lose rust in the government ... presented news that trouble people's conscience, and other similar charges were filed against the editor of the newspaper.
The editor of the newspaper due to the above-cited accusations were obliged to taste the scum of the earth at different places from the district police station up to Awasa town prisons.
Although the prosecutor said that the editor-in-chief has made the people lose trust in the government or disseminated false news, not even one tangible evidence did it ring, to ratify the charge.
No tangible evidence was seen in the court pertaining to the disseminated news being false, nor to the news as being troubling to people's conscience.
While the edition-in chief requested that this kind of accusation by the prosecutor was not proper and hence should be overruled, it was not successful.
And this kind of working procedure showed clearly before hand what kind of fate the editor-in-chief, may have.
Although due to teh additional two charges it was filed agaist teh editor-in-chief, Fiameta newspaper was decided to be out of publication, the news paper was again decided to continue for unlimited time as a result of the support and encouragement of readers of Fiameta, families of free press and other free press colleagues..
The reporter of this newspaper, after he talked over got a response from the editor-in-chief, Dawit Kebede, "... the objective which we aimed at have more or less reached its targets.
Our dream of instilling in free press with free spirit in the people has to a certain extent met is targets.
We joined the free press to sacrifice our own share.
And we've paid this sacrifice more than enough.
... Our brothers and fathers suffered and died for our freedom.
And we, for the sake of our children's freedom, struggled enough.
Our usual effort is to end the imprisonment, the suffering and discomfort in our generation.
There's no need for the coming generation to suffer and die for freedom ... we're dying bit by bit for future freedom and generation ... And we're happy for this has been successful."
He said.
It was disclosed that the editor-in-chief was released on bail of ten thousand Birr and having give his words at the central investigation office for he used a false analogy of the president of the country as having semblance of the Bole Airport yellow taxis, and dishonored the acting president of AAPO, General Nekatibeb, and similar charges..
From Fiameta August 25, 1999
EOPC is To Hold a Meeting in Frankfur.
Ethiopian Opposition Parties Coalition /EOPC is reported to conduct a great meeting in Germany, Frankfurt town from September 14, 2000 onwards.
The participants are expected to reach the place as from today, September 12, 2000 onwards, the coordinating committee of the parties disclosed.
In order to attend this meeting, 7 groups of delegates are reported to go there.
Among these, country coordinator of EOPC, 3 members from Alternative Forces, southern people's coalition and ONC would be represented, the statement of the coordinating committee explained.
On the other hand, EOPC coordinating members from North America and Europe representatives of leaders of organizations and branch offices would participate, it was disclosed.     .
The agenda of the meeting are the current condition of Ethiopia, the aggression of EPLF and the catastrophes it caused, the neglect of TPLF leaders to the call that was presented to them, and about the intrigue they do by mixing with some organizations which claimed to be oppositions, it was disclosed.
On the other hand, General NekaTibeb Bekele who's the first deputy president of AAPO's dictatorial and personal decision to close the organization so that it cannot operate abroad, showed that he has decided to go along with TPLF, and that has deeply saddened it, the statement that was released disclosed.
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
A Rote of Confidence is Expected
The politics is tensioned with a lot of contradictions - Mr. Meles Leadership is also open to question
Other than the immensity of the countries natural and artificial problems, the inability to resolve the country's political problems in a peaceful way, has intensified the confrontation and put the Prime Minister Meles Zenaw's leadership is open to question, internal sources, pointed out.
Before the political condition goes to unexpected destructive direction, there are sides who say that council of people's representative, council of ministers and even better the EPRDF council should give a rote of confidence on Mr. Meles' leadership, and especially within TPLF, different outlooks are being reflected by Mr. Meles' leadership an other members, expressed these sources.
These internal sources said the situation of the country is worrying the incumbent group.
Mr. Meles Zenawi, Tewelde Woldemariam, Alemseged GebreAmlak, Seyoum Mesfin, Dr. Abay Tsehay, Sebhat Nega, Gebru Asrat, Seye Abrha and others included members of TPLF leadership are said to have different stands on timely issues, it's being told.
TPLF higher officials have been making consultation abut the recent pressing issue and if the difference between Mr. Meles and others have become wider and if the discussion is continuing as expected, probably it is suspected to bring about Mr. Meles' substitution.
The Confrontation and disagreement was not only on resolving current problem. .
Although the oldest members of TPLF were given responsibilities to lead the organization's economic institutions, they were displeased to have been excluded from politics.
According to the sides who follow the internal situations these TPLF leaders and cadres and have Eritrean birth who were excluded from politics, whenever they became closer to Meles, they didn't find it comfortable.
Indeed, Meles Zenawi instead of his contemporary Tigrean friends, relies, on Eritreans, many claim that; the reason for the disagreement as the economy too..
The key members of TPLF who didn't like the intervention of Eritreans on Ethiopian issues (Siye, Abay, Tsehaye, Sebhat Nega) were involved in TPLF controlled business organizations by their family names..
In this issue the difference between few TPLF, MLLT leaders and the majority cadres very much widened.
Who's the beneficiary from the organization's huge economic institutions.
This question is being raised;
Many former TPLF cadres are dismissed, displaced, and turned to poverty and in the pretext of racial contribution, TPL fighters were sacked from the army and this annoyed them.
The fire that comes from every direction not only the ordinary soldiers and cadres of TPLF, singed but the act of becoming wealthier by some of them was not liked. .
For this and other reason several Tigrena speakers like siye Abrha, Abay Tsehaye, Gebru Asrat and Sebhat Nega are pressuring to have a different stand point from that of Meles Zenawi;
Meles Zenawi, on his part took various measures gathering Tigrean business people and elders before a few months in order to bring them to an agreement warn and frighten so as to stand together around relations and racial identification.
"In the pretext of our names, we are led to destruction," complained the Tigrean people, who, however, as of recently heard that in the war that's going on in Ogaden, Bale, Sidamo, Kuara, Meteke, Afar and other areas TPLF soldiers were dying, and aggravated their hatred on the regime;
The forces that oppose TPLF from every direction are increasing from time to time.
And this worsens the division within the organization. .
Although the opposition in the city seems to clam down, since the economic problem is getting worse, it appears to boil up within.
News of a bomb blast is heard from around Harar.
The relayed warnings to Sweden embassy from "unknown armed-forces" in the middle of last year conveys similar meaning to Americans, Norwegians, British and Canadians;
Clashes supported by ammunitions around the regions are increasing.
The Amhara region farmers are taking military option measures due to unfair distribution of land government took.
In Gojam and Gondar where the EPRDF army haven't stationed, the newly formed Ethiopian United Front is operating.
Around Asosa, the Benshangul peoples Freedom Movement together with the Ethiopian United Front are said to be fighting against EPRDF troops;
The agreement that was said to have been made with ARDUF hasn't bore fruits.
EPRDF wants to buy time so that the Afar fighters divide amongst themselves and give in.
OLF on its part although, like before, its divisions and weakness continue is still a pain in the neck to the regime, the members who are considered strong and who are closer and obedient to Isayas of Asmara rather than the Oromo people, Lencho Leta, and the negotiation deal he was said to have made with EPRDF hasn't been successful yet.
Nevertheless, OLF's military activity is widely heard to be prevalent.
The statement the leader of the organization has given recently proves that they've decided to push on the war.
There's instability in southern areas.
The report of theft supported by ammunition shows the political problem.
The aggravation of the problem could be seen from the reporter newspaper which is said to be supported by EPRDF.
In the February 25 edition of this paper, "To whom is the war for?
"The report under this title after reminding those forces who rose with armed-struggle to prepare themselves for negotiation, it criticizes, government's lack of need to negotiate.
And this is expected to be the voice of TPLF leaders who wanted to resolve the country's problem through peaceful mans and negotiation;
While EPRDF gained little for its support to American policy (which means a support from Washington), it develops enmity from areas of anti-American.
The clash Meles Zenawi created with Sudan (as long as he becomes dependent on America the clash doesn't stop) it exposed him to his decisive enemies who wanted to attack using Sudan as a military base. .
The EPRDF effort to soften Sudan becomes futile because armed fighters are found in the country and it's impossible to stop them.
Sudan on her part, has great support form Iran, Libya, Iraque and other Arab countries who could be headache to Meles;
In Ethiopia the thunder of revolt is always underground.
Those who put their ears at the right place would listen. .
But those who placed their ears in the palace and around American embassy would only hear the propaganda of the government.
The danger is, however, hanging over.
Since Mobutu's ouster through Washington's support, Musevini, Kagami, Isayas and Meles, help would put general pressure on Sudan, it could be believed that this would give time to breathe.
Due to this the Sudanese government may not hate to have good relation with the EPRDF.
The present Sudanese ambassador for the United Nations and former president Nemere's security adviser, Mr. Faz Irwa in his short stay in Addis recently stated that here's no problem with Khartoum and EPRDF.
The truth, however, doesn't seem so.
The hope is narrow that Meles betray his supporters (American and Isayas) would attach himself to Sudan.
But if the softning of Sudanese relations suit him to buy time, it's not possible to say that he wouldn't do it.
Sudanese oppositions, too, find it easy to have greater bond with Isayas who openly rose to fight Sudan.
Up to now what pleases Meles and EPRDF was the inability of Ethiopian Opposition forces to unite..
"There's no strong opposition" has been a catch phrase for Meles as well as other EPRDF authorities.
The basis for this has been the inability to integrate among Afar Revolutionary Democratic Front (ARDUF), Ethiopian United Front (EUF), Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), All Amhara People Organization (AAPO) and others.
The group led by colonel Goshu, Medhin, has been around by disseminating self-incriminating pamphlets.  .
Although here in Ethiopian the Peace and Democratic Alternative Forces Council wanted to work in an integrated from, AAPO is not with it.
Its activities are also not seen actively;
But now the situating is beige charged.
The Ethiopian United Front (EUF) which was established by six political parties including EDFI, seem to charge the political direction.
EUF which say "The peaceful door has been closed upon me" has started armed struggle and it sad that it succeeded in this direction.
The other issue that seemed to have given respite to Meles was the appearance of Tigrean speaking people being gathered around TPLF.
UP to now although most Tigrenal speakers didn't like its move, they were not seen opposing the government.
TTE and TAND which are established by Aregawi Berhe are making great effort to come out in the country among the Tigrean speakers..
The Tigrean speakers in the city appeared to stand aloof from the struggle either from fear or else from agreement.
But these days the opposition struggle is showing a sign of including Tigrena speakers; Indeed, Mr. Meles hasn't missed American Support.
We remember Hilary Clinton appreciating Isayas, dancing from a very short distance in a Asmara city where many political prisoners were put behind bars.
American companies have given Meles awards for his good governance.
Since Mr. Meles was afraid of confronting Ethiopian opposition, he sent his deputy and received the medal..
America attempts to expand and strengthen the region she called as the horn of Africa that stretches from Asmara up to Kinshasa, the region she uses to be of her benefit.
What she did on Zaire she wanted to do on Beshir's government.
There were signs that America wanted to remove Araph Moi;
But the political situation in Ethiopia seemed complicated.
Does the super power blind and biased support prevent one whose own people go against it?
If we take shah of Iran as an example (leaving alone Emperor Haile Selassie) Meles could have gotten good lesson.
It's still not late.
Rater than pushing the country to unexpected destructive clash it would save from many dangers to listen to the constructive and peaceful notions forwarded by the leadership of TPLF as well as from external oppositions and the people.
In a democratic regime vote of confidence between a header and follower creates assurance and it's to be supported.
From Tobia September 25, 1997
Ethiopian National Bank Announced that it has printed the new Birr note..
550 stations would give service of Birr note exchange
Solomon Teumelesa.
The Ethiopian National Bank disclosed that it has printed a new Birr note that would put in to use in the future and it has made enough preparation to start the work..
The governor of the bank Mr. Dubale Jale in his press statement yesterday disclosed that the printing of the new Birr note was distributed to the selected major areas in order to start exchange service..
He also made if official that the prepared money were 1, 5, 10, 50 and 100 Birr notes.
He also reminded that the old Birr notes has to be exchanged within 50 days form the day the money exchange is to be announced in the media sometime in the future..
He also explained that 21 days were allotted for the exchange of 50 and 100 Birr while 50 days were given for 1, 5 and 10 Birr notes..
The reason why various days were allotted to the Birr notes is that the 50 and 100 Birr notes are believed mostly to be found around cities, so these notes could be exchanged swiftly..
Mr. Dubale told that since the 1, 5 and 10 Birr notes are widely used by the country people, and they may find media difficulties, additional days were allotted..
Mr. Dubale pointed out that in order to make the exchange of Birr notes, 20 major stations were set up that coordinate branch office banks and temporary stations, and these stations are found in Addis Ababa, mekele, Dessie, Woldia, Gondar, Bahir Dar, Debre Markos, Debreberhan, Nazareth, Awassa, Shahemene, Asela, wolayta, Sodo, Hageremariam, Nekemte, Gimbi, Meth, Jima, Diredawa and Harar cities..
In addition where there are no brances of banks, three hundred temporary stations that give money exchange services are set up, Mr. Doubale explained..
250 government and private banks give the exchange services and in general 550 exchange stations are to be established, it was disclosed..
In order to do his work, two thousand workers were assigned and enough work instructions are setup, the necessary materials and tools for the exchange of Birr have already been prepared, he explained..
Both new and old Birr notes would be functional side by side starting form the date the bank officially discloses the exchange of the money until the last date, so till that last day, it would be illegal to disqualify the old Birr note, he underscored..
In order to avoid such and related problems, preparations have been underway to give appropriate awareness for the community, Mr. Dubale explained.
Different posters have been prepared to make people aware of the new Birr notes, it's reported.
The public created enough cooperation with regional police and armies of the defense force in order to protect trouble some and those who are engaged in looting activities.
Since the new Birr notes are made cautiously, it would be difficult to forge replication, said Mr. Dubale, And added that they are made in such a way that the public could identify and put in to use. .
Related to this he pointed out that the cents that are in use at the moment won't be changed..
It is to be recalled that the Birr notes which are in use at present were produced some 20 years ago.
From Addis Zemen October 9, 1997
Seven hundred Ethiopians are Agonizing Behind Bars in Eritrea
Ethiopians found in Asmara and other Eritreans towns are tortured, it was disclosed..
Some of them died there in the prison due to lack of medical treatment and food.
Ethiopians residing in Eritrea are at the moment found in excruciating misery and some of them are thrown to places that are humanly difficult to live.
Among the places Ethiopians thrown is cherhe, a location found with ina short distance from Asmara used for damping garbage; presently, the Ethiopians are being thrown there..
It was found out that among the Ethiopians who are thrown in cherhe, some are found in a very difficult situation.
The sources that disclosed that the in human act inflicted upon Ethiopians residing in Asmara is increasing from time to time; rape has also become rife..
Besides, Ethiopians who are made to stay behind bars are many, particularly, in Asmara where prisons are divided from one to six stages, more than 700 Ethiopians are found arrested, it was found out.
Those Eritreans, too, who oppose and criticize the movement of EPLF government are tormenting in the elsewhere prisons.    .
From Fiameta October 21, 1998
Head of United Nations Development Office is to visit Ethiopi.
Head of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) is to visit Ethiopia next month.
The aim of the head mark Maloch's Brawen visit is to meet with officials of the African Union and discuss ways as to how the union gets support.
In addition, the head he would have consultation on how the agenda of New Partnership for African Development (NEPAD) would be implemented.
It is to be recalled that out of the 3.5 million dollar United Nations Development Program (UNDP) promised to give to New Partnership for African Development (NEPAD), it agreed to give close to 2 million dollar this month.
The aid is meant to change the African standard of living, to develop good governance as well as widen international trade, especially to the implementation of educational and health programs that are given primary focus, it was disclosed..
From Addis Zemen February 21, 200.
Money Award was Given to coaches and Athletes who Participated in Athens Olympi.
More than One million Birr was given as motivation to athletes and coaches who participated and got successful results for Ethiopia.
The motivation award was prepared by EFDRE government, the athletes and coaches yesterday received their prizes from President Girma Wolde Ghiorgis being Present in the national palace.
Dr. Wolde Meskel Kostre who is a coach for the 10 thousand and 5 thousand distant and who highly contributed for achieving successful results was given 100 thousand Birr and certificate.
Assistant coaches, captain Tolosa Kotu and Mr. Kasa Alemayehu; Dr. Yelma Berta and Captain Zellalem Desta, marathon coaches, Inspector Tezazu Wubshet and Lieutenant Hussien Shob of middle distance race coaches as well as Box Coach Mr. Neridyo, each got a 60 thousand award.
Athletes who got gold medals were awarded 75 thousand Birr each, athletes who earned silver 50 thousand and those with bonze medals, got 30 thousand Birr, and those with diplomas were awarded 10 thousend each.
The athletes were given certificates, apart from money award.
The rest of the athletes were given 5 thousand each as participants.
Hence, in this regard, athlete Kenenisa Bekela and Meseret Defar got 75 thousand each, Sileshi Sehen, Ejigayehu Dibaba and Kenenisa Bekele, 50 Birr each, athlete Tirunesh Dibaba and Derartu Tulu, each received 30 thousand Birr.
Athletes who brought diploma major Haile Gebreselassie, Worknesh Kidane, Gebre Egziabeher Gebremariam, Degene Berhanu and Elfnesh Alemu were awarded 10 thousand each.
Apart from money award, those, who in their Olympic participation in other and international championship registered good results and were mentors for younger athletes, for major Haile Gebreselassie and Major Derartu Tulu, were given special award that have the photo of Abebe Bikila.
Those who took care of athletes in Athens, Dr. Ayalew Tilahun, 10 thousand, Mrs. Tsehay Tadesse 5 thousand as well as Dr. Dawit Tamirat, got certificate.
Certificate award was given to Ethiopian Olympic Committee members and to clubs which produced athletes.
From Addis Zemen September 3, 2004
"There's Nothing that Forbids us from Going to the War!
Seyoum Mesfi.
Ethiopian Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Seyoum Mesfin gave an interview to voice of America On June 1, 1991 condemning EPLF's belligerence. .
When answering as to what kind of follow-up is done on Eritrean in Ethiopia, "Among them it's not to say that there aren't some who follow Eritrean government's stand and policy..
It's not right to see all Eritreans who are in Ethiopia this perspective; apart from those sides who have blind outlook and those who are mislead to take wrong measures these people are dangerous to the country's security and lasting peace; it doesn't consider them as risky.
We are expected to make them work and benefit themselves and Ethiopia just like any foreigners.   .
With regards to the started efforts of negotiation by various sides, "I want to make it clear that if there is any picture of negotiation going on between Ethiopia and Eritrea, this is not the right understanding and pictures..
There's no negotiation underway between the two governments..
There's a clear proclamation stated by the council of Ministers and MPs that answers as to what would the conditions Ethiopian government consider to get in to negotiation..
This is the fact that Eritrean troops should leave the areas that it occupied by force crossing the Ethiopian border..
"Not only leaving the area, but also Ethiopian government must rebuild the former administration in the area..
After that questions that could be raised or contentious issues about that area or another could be solved, through bilateral negotiation process, or if that's not possible, through a third party, this is what we believe..
"In order to facilitate this process, the present IGAD chairman, President Hassen Guled of Djibouti, is doing his level best..
In addition, OAU's Secretary Dr. Salim is putting his own effort..
Above all, United States and Rwandan governments together they are putting effort to curb the situation before it's turning into an all-out war.  .
"...If we are forced to a situation where we should protect our sovereignty, that kind of war is self protective, and a war of keeping sovereignty and this is our right and we know that no one would forbid us..
Therefore, we are not that no one would forbid us..
There's nothing that forbid us from going to the war..
But to make peace reign, resolve peacefully it requires patience and for-sightedness..
Both Ethiopian and Eritrean people clearly know the cause of the war..
So, we are not in a hurry to engage ourselves in war..
On the Ethiopian side we know that support is being offered to friendly governments who go to and from the two cities making efforts..
I wish they succeed..
"...As I said before, however, in order to resolve the situation peacefully, both for bilateral mutual peaceful negotiation and with the inclusion of a third party, the Eritrean government, without any condition, should take out its troops from the areas it occupied forcefully denouncing our sovereignty."  .
He responded with regards to the prevalent severe clash..
From Fiameta June 3, 1998
Editorial
Have They Missed it Now or Were They not Having It Even Before.
According to the regular columnist expression in last week's Tobia magazine, and taking cognizance of the general situation, the tribal politics that has started in this country in the new order is heading towards having different forms and contents.
The disseminators of this regiment most often use these tantalizing and seemingly good, soft words and phrases, "nation, nationality, to enable people learn in their own language, to make them judged by their own language, to develop and preserve their culture, to administer themselves..
Basically, it's appropriate to respect people's rights..
Who would be defected if one speaks with its own language, if one becomes proud of one's culture and history, if one administers oneself?
What is saddening, however, is the diffusion of hatred among people under the cover of this beautiful idea; in the confusion, rather than the people, as was propagated, the beneficiaries are few.
When the true picture and the right cover of our present working procedure is unfolded, the plan of division it has for this people has become clear..
The plot to unbind the unity of these people who live side by side, whose fate is interwoven and people who work together for the development of its country, didn't take long time and effort to be uncovered..
So, after we have reached here, it seems that a new round campaign is opened..
Even at the outset, the philosophy of regional establishment, which was the promotion ladder for tribal politics, was feared that it would lead to racism..
The free press families who stood for unity were fighting this tendency..
As it has been indicated in the Tobia magazine, it is being considered as political ideology and trying to push it forward by certain members of the ruling party.
Although this is not the outlook and belief of most of the Tigrina-speaking people, its risk would be great if the flood increases..
Its risk would be for the whole people; especially for those few who use the name of that "nationality and nation" We said the language; identity, religion and history of any people should be respected an honored..
As long as they help for the development of all the people, the special identities of any people should be seen, even, like holy characteristics..
Before the tribe agitation of government and party cadres subsides, practical activities broaden their scope from tribalism to racism.
It seems that there's a tendency of clinging to a certain language, certain tribe and religion..
We see the speaker of one language from a small community leading and controlling all the activities of the communities.
What is very saddening is those who claimed that they've learnt modern education and said they would fight for people's right have been found cooperative to this process today.
The short question people ask "Why?" this is it.
This question should be asked by all of us and in turn we should defend it..
On our side, we say let's limit the racial hierarchy, tribal politics and the advancing tendency for its dangerous..
This direction would clash people with people, invites destruction and it is dangerous tendency for the peace of this county..
When we see this racist and tribal air blowing from those areas who claim to live up with the honored press work, our heart bloods.  .
The ethics of the profession worldwide legislative decree highly forbids dividing people in tribe and religion in the work of the press.
When we see these worldwide prohibitions are violated by employed whippier snapper "writers" who claimed yesterday that they stood for the entire working community, without differentiating race and tribe, become sorrowful..
Have the missed the ethics of being principled or were they not having it even before?
We say.
We would be forced to express repeatedly that the solution for it is clam political and peaceful campaign.
Because the result of defending racist stand with racism, the politics of arrogance with another arrogant and provocative politics would be destruction;
And still today their followers are singing that same song, they're tuning it up.
In our belief racial politics and racism, where ever it comes from, should be condemned.
In fact multi-national peoples' parties and opposition forces should withstand this tendency.
Otherwise, the result is dangerous.
From Tobia September 18, 1997
Ethiopia and Russia would sign military Agreement
Prime Minister of Russia, victor Chernomyrdin ordered his defense minister to produce a document of agreement with regards to the military cooperation with Ethiopia, a (flying letter) named "Indian Ocean News Letter" disclosed, in its second week edition of October.
It disclosed in its No. 782 edition.
According to the newspaper, the agreement document would include the military cooperation between the two countries, the way Ethiopian defense forces could train in Russian military training centers and would decide the military aid Russia could give to Ethiopia.
Besides, the content of agreement is thought to be that Russian military experts would come to Ethiopia and repair Mig 21, 23 and 24 fighter planes and other ammunitions.
Regarding the agreement, inside sources say that in order to make this agreement practical, Russian Defense Force would open one office in Ethiopia.
Ethiopia would pay in foreign currency for the services the Russian military experts render, according to the newspaper.
From Tobia October 23, 1997
Jijiga town was for a day under the control of Soldiers who were given the Sack
In Somali national administrative region, at Jijiga and Gode towns as well as Oromia region, around Borena Zone, in a tension created recently, there was a causality on one individual while a property, its estimation was not clearly known, was damaged, it was possible to know from associate reporters of the newspaper and donor organizations.
According to the reports that reached us the pressing situations were created since last Tuesday, and in some places the problem hasn't been resolved, it was said.
The report that covered the situations which occurred in these places divided them in to three.
Last Tuesday January 22, 2002 not only was Jijiga town troubled but also the town was put under the hands of the rebels who have been giving service in the EPRDF army but who later were sacked from their jobs and due to the forceful measures they took, the reports reached from eye witnesses and donor organizations disclosed.
According to the information, in an influence form the World Bank, Soldiers who were made to get the sack with an allocated money to rehabilitate them, about 250 soldiers have been raising questions claiming "that money which was allocated to rehabilitate us was embezzled by authorities; we're in great trouble".
Since the soldiers couldn't get responses to their requests, they snatched guns from the police force of Jijiga town and fired on all whom they encountered, injuring many people, I was said.
From the evidence we have up to now, three people's lives passed way.
After the soldiers put under control the town for a day, they were paid the money they had asked in a negotiation made, so the rebellion was able to calm down, our sources disclosed.
In the mean time, the misunderstandings created among the executives of Somali Regional Administration Council have worsened and, hence, the regional officials were called to Addis Ababa to negotiates in the presence of Mr. Hassen Shifa and Prime Minister Meles, sources from the Prime Minister Office proved.
According to the information we got from Jijiga, officials of the Somali Region Administration were divided in to two, one of which was said to be led by Ambassador Mohammed Derir.
Under this group, Mr. Abdi Ali Shega, Head of the region's Finance sector, Mr. Aden bile, Deputy President of the Region, Mr. Abdi Raho, and Head of the social sector.
The other group was led by the present president of the region Mr. Abdulreshid Dulane, close sources to the issue disclosed.
Although the cause of the misunderstanding of the regional officials was not known, observers say that power struggle and fight for benefits may have been the reason.
From Tomar January 29, 2002
Sudan is not Ready to Accept American-led Negotiation Effort
Sudanese first deputy president Osman Mohammed Taha in an interview he gave to Saudi Arabia Journalists last Monday said that in order to negotiate with Sudanese opposition forces Via U.S America.
She's not ready, he disclosed.
In relation to this the first deputy president said that Sudan has no plans to negotiate with the opposition forces in Saudi Arabia.
However, Osman Taha, who's at present paying a visit to Saudi Arabia, didn't pall with out mentioning that Sudan would be willing to negotiate with the rebels in one of the Arab Countries after she made proper preparation.
"Up to now Sudan hasn't put forward any question to negotiate with the rebels through Saudi Arabia," said Mohammed Osman Taha, its non-government organizations that took up this issue and dealt with the government of Saudi Arabia."
He explained to the journalists.
The Sudan first deputy president gave this statement after it was mentioned in a Saudi newspaper that Mohammed Osman Taha comes to Saudi to negotiate with the rebels.
One day after a Saudi Arabian newspaper, the Pana News media disclosed.
In a statement he gave to one Saudi Newspaper, the Saudi Defense Minister Prince Sultan said one Sudanese party asked Saudi Arabia to prepare the peace negotiation and his country doesn't have any reason not to cooperate for such peaceful issue, also pana reported.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
The Case of Professor Mesfin WoldeMariam and others was Postponed for Some Other time due to Missing Judges
The Federal Higher court fourth Criminal tribunal that was to see the criminal charges filed against Professor Mesfin WoldeMariam and Dr. Berhanu Nega yesterday was postponed for another day for the middle judge was sick.
The tribunal which was to pass order on the bail request of the accused and to receive the appeal against the charges filed, postponed the appointment to June 6, 2001.
Since the tribunal was not complete, the office disclosed that it could not pass order on the bail request and receive a writer appeal against the charge filed.
The accused reported to the Judges who gave them the appointment date that they couldn't meet their lawyers, and the lawyers explained that it's not possible to pass orders with an incomplete tribunal, but they asked them as to why they couldn't meet their lawyers.
As Dr. Berhanu explained at this time, he believes the lawyers were not allowed to see them because they might be busy.
The accused lawyers on their part explained that they go to the Central Investigation up to three times a day and even if they tried to speak to their clients, the gatekeepers, speaking to their bosses on the telephone, repeatedly told them to come later and they were not allowed then.
The lawyers who gave appointment in the office told the accused and their lawyers to present their appeals when the tribunal is complete and ready to seen the case.
From Addis Zemen June 2, 2001
His Majesty's Funeral Has Become Controversial!
An Ascetic terrorizes claiming that if the corpse of Emperor Haileselassie I doesn't rest in honor, Ethiopia won't be peaceful!!
After being killed on August 29, 1974, the corps was found in a well that was dug next to the toilet of Mengistu Hailemariam, has not been officially buried with absolution and funeral ceremony, which has become the main topic of discussion recently.
After the corpse was found through digging, it is to be recalled that as to whether it was really his, his ex-personal doctor, professor Asrat Woldeyes certified.
After a year EPFDF came to power during the transition government individuals from the clergy, patriots' Association, and families were chosen and allowed to get in to the palace to find His majesty's corpse were given responsibilities and authority from investigating various documents up to having dug the places where he was said to be buried, and finally got the corpse.
In order to carry out the funeral ceremony after the corpse was found, the Ethiopian Patriots Association and the then MOA Anbessa Organization entered in to dispute that led the delay of the funeral.
Again after the dispute was made to calm down and at the time the preparation for the funeral ceremony was about to be carried out, people's revolt came about.
The question was "His majesty's funeral should not be carried out just like any ordinary individual".
The other question the opposition raised seven years before was "Let government declare a one-day mourning and carry out the funeral ceremony..."
His majesty was not only a father of Ethiopia but also for Africa, so government would give focus and he would be buried with the participation of the public.
Since there were ideas like these, the issue was asked to pass or to the people instead of just the MOA Anbessa and the Patriots' Association.
Based on this, with a seal of Patriots' Association and the signature of the chairman this question was put forward to the transitional government but couldn't get urgent response.
The preparation for the funeral ceremony was made to discontinue and based on the consent of the crown-prince in England and the people the funeral ceremony was decided to be carried out at another time.
The elderly people that were chosen to negotiate MOA Anbessa and the patriots' associations then formed a committee and started their activities, but they were not able to continue up to the end.
However, since 1995, ascetics who claimed to have seen a vision came to Addis Ababa told, "If His majesty's corpse don not rest in honor, a very great turmoil would be created" and terrorized the families of the king as well as the public, the committee that constituted elders started again its activities to carry out the ceremony in 1995.
Nevertheless, since this elderly committee who were formed to carry out the funeral ceremony needed to be legal body it has continued its effort to be a legal body and to be given full authority to carry out the funeral ceremony from 1995-1999 and it's to recalled that last years it got a government permission...The Haileselase I Memorial Organization.
Since the organization got this permission, it has met various obstacles to carry out the funeral ceremony.
Issues starting from whether to make the funeral ceremony on a holiday, to calling popular personality's form abroad to Ethiopia have become contentious.
Actually the situation was just like what the ascetic said that the country seemed to stay in drought and war until his majesty's corpse came to rest in honor.
As Fiameta newspapers was following the matter closely it falls upon it a responsibility to present to the public the ongoing disputes with regards to the funeral ceremony.
Among the disputes raised recently is found that there was a dispatch on the internet and in some tabloids that claimed the king's family living abroad didn't accept the legal body formed by the name Haileselassie I Memorial Organization and the fact that the funeral ceremony was to be carried out together with TPLF individuals, which saddened the organization.
In the statement the organization released last week, disclosed that the king's family didn't say that and the news was far from truth.
Some sources said that it's Lord Mengesha's line of the king family who exaggerate this.
There are still others who claim that this was just defamation of an ordinary nature.
Anyway, the controversy continued.
The other which seems ordinary, but whenever the funeral ceremony is mentioned creates a dispute is how the corpse is transported how the procession make its way.
They all seem to agree on one point.
The corpse would be taken out from the St. Mary church where it had been put temporarily and move by St. Gabriel church making its was by ministry of Foreign Affairs and passing by the Jubilee Palace, the corpse heads to Masquel Square where it rests for a while.
At masquel Square in the presence of invited guests and the public a ceremony of delivery speech for the occasion would be carried out.
It's the procession after this that became disputable.
One of the sides say that after the masquel square, the corpse would go to Laghar then through Churchil Road make its way to St. George church; then by piazza to Arat Kilo, Holy Trinity Cathedral, while the other group from Masquel Square, through Laghar straight to Mexico Avenue and would make its way to Tekle Haimanot Church, Passing the General Habte Ghiorgis bridge would reach to St. George church, then via Afincho Ber by the side of the University take rest at miskiyazunal church.
This seemingly ordinary, but disputable issue has not been resolved as yet.
However, there's a point which all agree.
The reason they have for the corpse to come at Miskiyazunal church which is found next to Teferi Makonnen School, was that "the miskiyazunal Ark of the Tabernacle was in exile together with the king His majesty, and came back afterwards and a church was built to it, and up to 1974 it was administered from his majesty' personal savings".
Therefore, it's after the corpse reposed here that it should go down wards to Holy Trinity Cathedral, they say.
The other and the main contentious issue was as to when the funeral ceremony would be carried out? This is the question.
According to the internal sources, the funeral ceremony was planned to be carried on the coming may 5, 2000 for its Freedom Day and there won't be any work.
But since this would be most regrettable and shameful act, it's already been criticized.
May 5 is Independent day.
It was a holy the day the Italians went out fully from Ethiopia and it was a day when His majesty came back to Addis Ababa.
To bury His majesty on such a great independent day would not only be sorrowful, it would also be interpreted differently among others.
Changing Independent day by a Funeral day is like committing crime on a generation.
Therefore, by any standard, making may 5 a funeral day would be an unforgivable mistake.
The Haileselassie I memorial organization is by now preparing a letter to the prime Minster in order to carry out the funeral ceremony on this date.
The other problem of May 5 is that the time where EPRDF and other oppositions would make fierce struggle for the upcoming election.
In addition, there's a worry that time government and private Medias would be focusing on the election and the funeral ceremony could be underestimated.
Apart from this, dates chosen for the funeral ceremony are July 24, His majesty's birthday, August 29 the date on which he was killed by the Derge regime, October 31 his day of coronation, all of which were unaccepted for one reason or another.
And so the dispute continues.
But the people have some decisive questions.
Why does the HaileSelasse I organization need to carryout the funeral ceremony along with other holidays?  Why can't the funeral ceremony be held on a separate day?  Why couldn't it be on any ordinary Saturday and Sunday when people are free?  These are the questions raised.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
The money that was Embezzled from Lideta church is said to be Exposed.
The money of the St. Mary, Lideta church which fund in district 22, village 04 have been embezzled though different internal methods but now is said to be exposed.
The church has a good monthly income, about one hundred thousand Birr net income may be gotten per month, but in the audit (control) that was done in due time, there were times where ever ten thousand Birr was not put in to the account of the church, the news that reached us from the place assured.
A serious foul play was being committed in the sanctuary and those who gave been in responsible position in the church and served her for 6 years have no efficiency or experience what so ever and were assigned there based on scratch-my-back, I-will-scratch-yours benefits, but thanks be God after the new admin came to the fore and a new forum of preaching was elected work as well as legal finance accounting had started.
The previous preaching forum which was said to cripple the church in collaboration with office chiefs who stood for their private benefits, and had spent their valuable work time in vain for 6 years, which was but of the written regulation of the church, and condemned it the news.
Especially, the secretary, and the so-called controllers who were assigned to the post have become major actors for the embezzlement of the church as well as for the overall problems of the sanctuary; they have become great obstacles and found to create problems on the preaching forum and the admin who rose to work devotedly with spiritual initiation and for the development of the church, the report explained.
The news also explained that it is very shameful to say that only ten thousand Birr was gotten from a church as huge as Lideta, and it was a proof that ensured that the church has been exposed for embezzlement.
The fact that money collected in the alms boxes used to go to individual's pockets and regarding this when information was given to the officials of the clergy it used to be given deaf ears, the news implicated, apart from the cash money embezzlement, it was reported that one marriage certificate was sold to individuals by a lot of thousand, Birr.
There are still some church workers who aren't confident on themselves and live dependently on others, that spend their time accusing the straight forward church workers condemning the preaching forum, conspiring with Addis Ababa National preaching and the clergy members disclosed the news.
From Fiameta July 28, 1999
Athlete Meseret Defar was Appointed Good will Ambassador
Athlete Meseret Defar who earned gold medal in a 5 thousand meter race in the Athens Olympiad was appointed good will ambassador for office of United Nations Fund for population.
As it was disclosed in a special program that the organization prepared at Sheraton Hotel, yesterday night, the effort, strength and victory athlete Meseret Defar displayed in Athens has made her to be elected a candidate and then appointed for another responsibility.
As it was indicated in the program, the fact that athlete Meseret Defar is appointed in the organization a good will ambassador, would help Ethiopian Women withstand all the economic, social, political, cultural and religious influences they encounter.
Rep of office of the United Nations Fund for Population, Dr. Monike Reakotomalala, spoke that the fact that Meseret accepted the responsibility given to her would enable her to teach and agitate the community that brought her to this great level so as to get rid of the poverty, HIV/AIDS, early marriage, harmful practices traditions and to her related problems which stood in the way of it; in the effort to starting from formation of policy to facilitating situations for women to lead better lives, she would be playing her own role.
Dr. Rakatomala who spoke that he saw many developing countries their leaders of whom have great visions, and people who work day in day out to improve their lives, said poverty, war and violations of different sorts above all greatly hurt females and children; in order to solve these situations and enable the respect of female equality rights finding athletes like Meseret would help a lot, he pointed out.
The international recognition and happiness that Meseret attained through her effort is not only hers, but it's all ours, he praised.
Athlete Meseret on her part said that she's concerned about her Ethiopian fellow people being victimized by HIV/AIDS and poverty, and promised to properly discharge the duties the United Nations Fund for population bestowed up on her.
She thanked her families, friends and sport associates who stood beside her in her victory in Athens Olympiad.
From Addis Zemen, September 8, 2004
The Fury of Debre Nazareth St. Joseph Priests is still Hot!
The Fury of the Addis Ababa Debre Nazareth St. Joseph Church Priests against those who falsely wrote on their church administrator, Vicar MelakeTsion Aba Wolde Hawariat Demissie, is still hot.
The article which reached our office from the association of priests in the sanctuary, under the title "when the act of character Assassinators is Exposed", condemning the article written against the administrator and stating that it was far from the truth, explained point by point in response to the previous article; the side (individual) who wrote against the administrator was not a child of the church but anti-scholars and betrayer, according to the core of the message; one who was extremely angry about the development activity of church and angry at the fruits of assiduous workers; and obsessed with envy, it said.
1. The administrator Vicar MelakeTsion Aba Wolde Hawriat, since he has been assigned at this church has been contributing a wide service (teaching) of the gospel to the laity, living fatherly advice to priests and workers of the sanctuary and regarding the administrative process, apart from treating people squally, he has never showed partiality or displayed racism.
In fact, on the contrary, he fights against racism, believes in ore church, and the writer wrote against him claiming he showed partiality, being led by Satan, otherwise the administrator is far from such racial division, and hence, we oppose the writer.
2. The Writer claimed that he has had a servent desire to hire his people from Gondar, but we        saw that the writer exposed himself in saying so.
He has a feeling of hatred against this race and came to realize that Satan has controlled him; so we feel sorry for the writer; we advise him to take corrective measures.
Melake Tsion Aba Hawariat has never said "Employ some one" from Gondar, although he was from Gondar.
Unless to show your fake identity, and prepared to disturb the peace our church has, all church people are the children of God, and rising to say "you are Peter's, you're Apolos" shows that you are obsessed with demonic spirit, the association of priest condemned it."
Because of this fake article against the administrator and your provocative aim the peace of the church won't be disturbed.
The article written in response
3. You said that he forbids the preaching forum from working, he doesn't have administrative           skill.
Unless you want to magnify your perfidy, MelakeTsion Aba WoldeHawariat Demisie is among the great son of the church who is known for his administrative skills, church profession as well as spiritual fatherhood.
Since he came to our sanctuary, peace and stability regions.
Let alone to mention his name falsely, his presence is not even known.
If you really knew this father closely and came to understand his professional efficiency you wouldn't have written such hocus-pocus on our administrator, the article said.
4. You said, "The development activity that was planned to be practical in the future was closed       due to your inefficiency", but this proved to show your act of defamation, otherwise St.              Yoseph church is a place where development activities are visibly being underway, more than       any other times.
Due to the laity Christian and this great administrator's activities the construction of St. Michael Kano Church is nearing its completion.
In coordination with the development committee, he is registering a work that makes one proud.
The development activities are being conducted efficiently, giving deaf ears to the crooked and detractors.
But as to your perfidy, we still feel sorry for you.
5. As to your claim that he has weakened the preaching of the gospel and Sunday school, it's now, more than any other time that these two are strengthened and widened.
You wouldn't have spread such kind of perfidy had you to been infected by falsehood and back biting.
Our administrator has even now excel any other one and is always diligent.
As to your claim that the car of the church has become a vehicle for transporting private onions and potatoes, Aba WoldeHawariat let alone as much onion and potatoes to be loaded on a vehicle, he doesn't have something to be filled with a plastic beg.
Because he lives alone and lives in the premise of the sanctuary.
You've said those usual words full of perfidy that in order to be elected on July 13, 1999 he has pent a lot of money and force.
Basically, our church elects bishops not on the basis money they spent or sort of run for election, but according to the church principles and regulations.
You should have known that speaking of such ill things, as being elected due to the money one spent in church, is desecration of a holy church.
In fact, Vicar MelakeTsion Aba W/Hawaryat Demssie should deserve to be a bishop, considering his professional contribution to the church and his being a son of the church since childhood in the desert and frost.
If you are the resident of our church you would perhaps know that it was not only a wish of the many priests of the sanctuary and the laity that he would have been chosen a bishop in the last election, but it was a firm belief of them.
But if you just said this merely on the basis of envy, we feel sorry for you.
Vicar MelakeTsion Aba Hawariat Demissie is not as you described him, but known by the Holy Synod, assiduous, diligent and strong father.
Therefore, our accusation is why the condemnation of the admin was on your article written on August 27, 1999.
And we wonder you mention our admin's name in relation to falsehood.
It has been proud that the admin has been a teacher of the new translation and many other teachings of the church.
It was to be recalled that pertaining to the priests' stand in the priests' meeting, two of our reporters were present and disclosed work by word, their entire discussion last week.
Due to lack of space we couldn't present all in all the article of association of priests.
From Fiameta September 8, 1999
Patriarch Condemned, Parish Administrator Ousted From St. Urael Church
On Sunday, November 1, 1998, the parish administrator, in the presence of the surrounding community of congregation, requested the priests, "What is a ban?
What kind fo person is to be anathematized?"
and he further remarked, remarked "It has been so long since we have been anathematized, and unless we are given sdutions, we will take a stand." Based on their request, the preaching congregation and believers' committee discussed upon, Christian communities were called for a meeting on the 6th of November, according to close sources.
In this general assembly, where all priests and the surrounding believers widely discussed issues raised on the previous meeting, that is, of being anathematized, they were told that since ordination is given to clergyman, not only patriarchs,but also all who are ordained priests can minister anathematization; one does not necessarily should be a high priest for such a ministry; the community of believers reasoned why they were anathematized by chief Ayalew Tamiru. The congregation agreed that unless the conflict between chief Ayalew and the Patriarch as well as the controversy in the church are resolved and the sanctions, are lifted, the patriarch's name should not be called in Ureal Church, the report stated.
This decision made by priests and congregation indicate that the church would not restrict itself in not summoning patriarch's name, but would go as far as defecting itself form the leadership of the patriarch, provided that the problem is not to be solved through dialogue.  Copies of the decisions of the joint meeting of priests and congregation were disseminated to the patriarch, concerned bodies including the media, participants disclosed to our office.
This decision shows the united stand of the congregation and that of clergymen.
Especially, the parish administrator, Melak Hiwot Wolde Senbet, who stood for the truth, may soon be fired from his position, as many already expressed their concern.
The latest report we received indicate that the parish administrator vicar Melake Hiwot Wolde Senbet, who in a joint meeting with congregation, decided to remain in his stand, is now ousted from his position, with a letter which was said to be written by the office of the patriarch.
Nevertheless, the congregation are still expressing their objection to accept the new vicar appointee, and further expressed their opposition by saying vicar Melake would not leave them.
From Fiameta November 12, 1997
Whether the Coming Election Would be Free and Democratic Created Controversy Among People
It has been a year and half since the war on Ethio-Eritrean border dispute was without resolve, but broad coverage is given at the moment in the government media to describe about the coming may election.
While some sides ask up to when would the Ethiopian border is forcefully occupied by the contemptuous EPLF, others expressed their worry that the war is not something that can be concluded in such a short time.
Some military observers said that it was during the first war that wrong had been done on the side of Ethiopia, detailing that as soon as victory was achieved at Bademe Front, instead of discontinuing the war, should have gone forward and releasing the other places or occupying strategic places inside their territory, for the EPLF forces were weakened and highly shocked.
The main reason they gave for this was that the international community wouldn't, like now, have mocked at Ethiopia if strategic areas were occupied then, and in the peaceful negotiation it would have enforced Eritrea to urgently leave Ethiopian land, expressed with regret.
These groups are reminding that even now the limitless time given to the enemy would allow it to be organized and strengthened so that making it hard for the Ethiopian defense force against the enemy force and it may call for heavy sacrifice.
On the other hand, the government is presenting a lot of programs through its medias and these have become talking points for the people.
The public expresses that it needs the national election, more than any other time, to be more free and fair.
However, it has great doubts whether the election process in this year's election would be democratic.
Just like the previous election, they worry that most positions would be taken in different ways, by a one-clan-party members, they disclosed.
In this election, people want better people's representatives to be elected; they don't want to see one-clan or party monopolizing all higher positions.
For this they want as many better individuals and parties who feel their fellow people's concern, and this is being clearly told.
From Fiameta November 24, 1999
A Day in the Parliament
It is to be recalled that in our last week edition we presented the report prime minister submitted on January 29, 2002 to the council of representative, and the question major Admassu Melaku raised and the suggestions he gave based on this report.
Next to Major Admasu it was Dr. Beyene Petros, chairman of Optional Forces and Southern people's Union who came up with suggestion and questions.
Dr. Beyene roughly went through the 32 pages of the report and criticized it.
The expressed that as his faith on the regime (has left with) little hope, he even see no use calling it with its name.
He mentioned that the report was general and didn't deal with details so it was difficult to understand the extent of work done; and with regards to what is being done in the country at the moment, Kr. Beyene said,
"what is being done is a party which struggled for many years overcame the previous regime; designing a lot of strategies to remain in power, out of which recruiting members from each nation nationalities who could serve his purpose, organizing them in to parties, protecting its power from getting out of its hands; this is what we see being done.
To this end, it conducts what are called elections allocating millions of Birr for the sake of consumption by the international donors; I am forced to call this election by its proper name, elections are mostly wanted to be conducted not because they are free and democratic, but as they say for the sake of giving vote of confidence or to see the support the incumbent party has for the election, but it is not a free competition held among different political parties, so we have reached at a stage to call the present government by its proper name" continuing his speech, Dr. Beyene Petros criticized, "the next move would be building the capacity of the members of the council...which was presented by prime Minister Meles Zenawi's report which he said was an observation made out of the council's aim and role and this saying seemed to put the council members in a lower status than the executive body; and if this idea had come out of the House Speaker or the secretariat of the council it would have been proper, he disclosed.
With regards to the judiciary order, Dr. Beyene Petros said trainings given to lawyers and prosecutor generals should be given in line with international standards in the country's colleges and universities, and continued "This means we repeatedly met with the so-called lowyers who graduatied even now and then in a fast process from civil service college, but who are really illiterate to law.
This has been criticized by many lawyers so the mistakes need to be amended; we are not saying they shouldn't be trained in the institution, we're suggesting that let's take sufficient time, enough evaluation and then they could be trained," they said.
Dr. Beyene also raised the issue of salary increment and reminded that this should have uniformity and it ought to include those who serve in the development organizations, "what's planned for these people? He asked.
Dr. Beyene mentioned that it's not appropriate to categorize the private press and opposition parties together, and the report presented regarding the opposition wasn't a balanced judgment, he said.
Beyene Petros, who reminded that so as to make the election process democratic, opposition parties were injured, bleed, and sacrificed their members, continued by saying "when we look back the repeated election, as they didn't fulfill free and fair election criteria, it bleeds our heart," he said.
"The so-called Electoral Board which was an institution established by government has transferred to a institution that was formed to have people attacked by the name of election," he said.
Therefore, around this, study and evaluation has to be carried out and radicals structural change should come, he reminded.
In a situation where this doesn't happen, oppositions ought not to be driven like fattened oxen ready to be slaughtered; Dr. Beyene also wondered why is the issue about demarcation of the border is not disclosed to the public?  He put forward this question; he also expressed his sorrow for seeing the AIDS problem that is very pressing health situation of the country was not included in the report.
Dr. Beyene raised in his question regarding the presence of considerable disparity in the army; favoritism and lack of discipline.
In the afternoon the whole time was held by EPRDF leadership; at first Adisu Legesse, chairman of Amhara Nationals Democratic Front, followed by his deputy and minister of Information, Bereket simon forwarded suggestion and responded to questions; next was Dr. Kasu Ilala, chairman of SEPRDF and minister of Infrastructure mentioned that he made a two-hour discussion with Dr. Beyene so as to make the election in the south democratic, and testified that the election was defect less and purely democratic.
As to the complaint regarding the said uneven distribution of fertilizers for farmers who are members and supporters of opposition parties, the deputy Prime Minister Adisu Legesse stated that what is being told with regards to fertilizers was false as the supply was more than the demand; the one who denied about what was said to have happened at Feres Bet was Bereket Simon.
With regards to assigning of judges, explanation was also given by Berket Simon, especially among the lawyers that work at a Federal level, he said only less than 2% of them graduated form Civil Service College, and hence, the suggestions given on these judges would be against their humanity, he complained.
With regards to the question raised about the sovereignty, it was Seyoum Mesfin, minister of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Chairman of TPLF, who gave explanation.
The Prime Minster gave responses on general issues and for warded the conclusion.
We will start seeing from the minister of foreign affairs:-
Mr. Seyoum Mesfin's explanation focused on the Court of Session held in the Haig-Netherlands that dealt with border dispute; the defenses presented on the side of Ethiopian were the border agreement documents made between Ethiopia and Italy in 1900, 1902 and in 1908; and he also explained that it took the charter that was approved in Cairo in 1964; that the lawyers employed on the part of Ethiopian to conduct the border dispute came from a company that has European and American branches; that this company is said to be one of the top ten; and added that it is the first in Europe.
Mr. Seyoum explained that the lawyers who were employed from this company won the Hanish controversy case, standing for Yemen and now they took the litigation for Ethiopia.
It was possible to understand from Mr. Seyoum's explanation that these international lawyers presented Ethiopian document and had a speech dispute for 15 days and concluded their task in December.
Mr. Mesfin pointed out that if the decision could be made soon it would be official in February, otherwise it may take an additional month or two.
With regards to the process of litigation Mr. Seyoum elucidated that it was conducted openly and nothing is being carried out secretly; in order to express the defending points of Ethiopia and the details Eritrea presented, the working procedure restricts and it's forbidden.
Until the decision becomes official the details should be kept with in the litigants; that doing to the contrary to this for the consumption of propaganda and media-wrestling would put pressure on the judges' consciences and, therefore, such kind of procedure is forbidden, and that this is not something that started with this case but this was so even in the previous working procedure.
The process of arbitration judicature, rule of procedure is only this, he underscored.
With regards to the litigation conducted by the foreign professionals, they gave explanation to government officials, regional authorities, but because of the above-mentioned reasons it was not possible to disseminate the news in the mass media.
As to evident information, more than 5 thousand documents from universities, different government institutions were presented to the law court; besides historians contributed their share, it was possible to understand from the minister of Information.
Evidences were gathered from Europe and American libraries and research centers, he explained.
That government spent a lot of money to enable the process complete successfully; that it sacrificed a lot, and employed more than one thousand people, he pointed out.
In general he believed that the litigation process has been completed successfully.
In order to bring back the healthy relationship that used to be prevalent between Ethiopia an Eritrea and with regards to the Algiers agreement and normalization, Mr. Seyum told that foreign forces were making strong pressure to create this situation; and this was also being tr ied by religious leaders and civil institutions, he reminded.
Following he said, "There's no enmity between the people of the two countries; the relationship between the people of the two countries surpasses the bondage of ordinary neighborhood," he pointed out, and since the 1998 aggression EPLF conducted was not connected with the people, we don't categorize the people as enemies as a result of the aggression, he said.
Although there were Eritreans who were deceived by the regime, we don't have problems with the people, he emphasized.
He was quoted as saying that so as to have healthy relations in the future with the regime, the ball is in the Eritrean court.
"It's the regime's behavior which created the problem; it needs the neighborhood of Ethiopia as long as it gets benefits; unless it changes this attitude, its aggression interest curbed, what's the guarantee?"  He asked and underlined that the issue of healthy relations "normalization" comes by taking this in to consideration.
As to the economic situation, Ethiopia needs a port, and in order to use this port in a secured way we need to have options of ports.
"Government is doing its best to get a neighboring port that is secured and ruled by international law, not a port which is opened when leaders are happy and closed when they are displeased," he said.
Apart form this effort to return Asab by opposition group is an undercover wish for war, he condemned.
The opposition forces in the country together reminded in the "memorandum" they sent to the United Nations condemning the Algiers agreement that unless the Ethiopian people's right over Asab port gets response, they said it would create a problem.
While Mr. Mesfin condemned this calling it war-seeking he strengthened the idea, "Ethiopian people have become sick and tired of the war that he was in for 30 yeas pertaining to this issue."
"As a result, its development and peace have been interrupted," he said.
Mr. Seyoum passed without mentioning the war that costs the lives of hundreds of thousands civilians, after Eritrea seceded and Ethiopian people lost its port ownership.
The song and slogan that says unless Asab is ours there's no peace; the nation would be in turmoil, has no acceptance now," said with obstinacy.
This kind of thinking would countervail the aim of the battle conducted against Eritrea recently, he said.
Let alone in kilometers, we don't have an intention of taking an arms length of other nation's territory; it is impossible to forcefully put on one's interest on another, he said.
The argument that says the treaty made between Menelik and Italy doesn't have acceptance now is an argument that holds no water.
Unless the two sides agree, it's not possible to nullify the treaty, therefore, its imperative to accept this treaty and implement Mr. Mesfin explained.
The option other than this would put the country and her people in to war, he warned with stubbornness.
Oppositions and intellectuals talk of the reasons why Italy's treaty would not be acceptable.
The disputable idea they present is the treaty was signed between two nations whose forces are not balanced, between Emperor menelik and the Italian government, as well since the Italian government conducted aggression in 1928 violating the treaty, they claim that the treaty is nullified.
This is what Mr. Mesfin calls as an argument "that holds no water".
Among the elites that hold on to this idea is found Dr. Yakob Hailemariam who was following the Rwandan genocide case on an international level as a prosecutor.
Following Seyoum Mesfin, it was Prime Minister Meles Zenawi who forwarded his suggestions and responded to some of the questions that were raised.
That day, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, during the morning session just after he finished presenting his report, he was taking notes while Major Admassu Melaku made his suggestions and questions.
At times he spent time burying his head on the table "feeling bored".
When Dr. Beyene Petros forwarded his suggestions and questions, Meles was seen taking notes, but went out leaving the hall before he finished his question and suggestions.
How could he give responses for the suggestions and question he didn't hear from Dr. Beyene? What could his response be?  These were what goes in the minds of many, but the Prime Minister left the forum fully for his associates.
The aforementioned Mr. Adisu Legesse, Mr. Bereket Simon, Dr. Kasu Illala, Mr. Seyoum Mesfin took a long time and gave explanations; finally the prime Minister saying that he wanted to touch upon issues which were not treated, suggested explanations, and at times, forwarded warning-like notions; The oppositions Dr. Beyene Petros and Major Admasu Melaku were allowed together less than an hour to express their ideas and raise questions, and even this was said to be too much, and EPRDF members who filled the council and newly appointed diplomats who sat on the balcony were murmuring.
In the morning while Prime Minister Presented his report form more than an hour, and in the afternoon, when EPRDF leadership, in turn, took generally 3 hours, by themselves, up to 6 o'clock, nobody murmured.
The discussion came to an end without giving chances for oppositions to put forward their ideas on suggestions of EPRDF.
Many believe that it would have been fascinating and useful, if the discussion was held between the prime minister, or to support him, with the addition of the minister of foreign affairs, Seyoum Mesfin, and the two opposition party members, for the latter would get a chance to respond to the responses given by the former, without the inclusion of other EPRDF members.
If individuals from EPRDF became furious with only two opposition individuals, there are many who ask what would have been the case if peaceful and fair election was conducted and other leaders of opposition forces joined the council.
Let's return to the responses prime minister gave:-
Prime Minister Meles used the chance he was given and forwarded suggestions as soon as his followers finished their part; he gave responses.
"Just to touch upon issues which were not treated," was what he said as Meles Zenawi started, "we had a hope that targeted a hope that oppositions may put forward details on particular items; they may even show us detailed policy options, and this hope of ours was there because at the beginning of the year they said they take time and study and would present their optional policy.
But now they said we don't have to present our optional policy; they said our task is to oppose," and continuing his speech, Meles Zenawi said "If they don't present their optional policy and identify the points that differentiate them from EPRDF, and cooperate with what we agree, what can be done if they said our task is just to oppose," he asked.
Observers believe that Dr. Beyene and others would have come up with wide and tangible defending notions had they been given additional opportunity to defend themselves.
Observers say that if all oppositions hold power of the country, they would take up the leadership based on their programs.
When they receive power they produce detailed policy of implementation; the other side which didn't get hold of power would struggle by pinpointing this or that policy of implementation has problems with this regard; they say they have been proved practically, and failed and through such kind of debate they would struggle to amend them, which is their task.
The questions mostly raised by the members of the council were not criticizing policy options, but as they were pinpointing defects with regards to implementation, the issue shouldn't be related to presenting policy options, these observers criticized.
Regarding increment of salary, Prime Minister Meles criticized the claim "why shouldn't there be increment for pensioners; why shouldn't there be for patriots; why shouldn't there be increment for development organization workers; why shouldn't we give subsidies to all, doesn't go with finance and administration law".
"Would they defeat EPRDF and control the financial institutions or?  Do they want to say it would be what should be then," he asked.
Regarding the claim the opposition raised that said it would increase the number of thieves to distribute authority down to the district and village level, he said "This is a philosophy as the saying goes of one who when he's in power should corrupt for he would regret it if he doesn't when he's in power should corrupt for he would regret it if he doesn't when he leaves office.
In our belief, authority is a tool that would change nature and social relationship, so we don't relate an issue of authority with theft; yet, we don't believe theft can't occur in the midst, they said.
With regards to the issue around defense forces Dr. Beyene raised, the question of disciplinary problem on the side of oppositions.
Earlier they didn't have friendly outlook on the defense force, but now they started being concerned; it is good," and then he first explained about the importance of the contingency force.
As the case of contingency force is not now to our country but there is in their nations, too, so we would make a study taking the experience of many countries, looking into several options; it could be countries; we'll study and make it ready in a year's time; when issues related to the law are raised, the concerned body would lead," he said.
"With regards to the army's wearing problem, putting their ranks under their jackets, it's become difficult to identify the corporal from the General; the General from the major;  This is a good question; although it is not right to wear field jacket over the shirt that has the rank, the decisive actor to win in the battle field is not that, but it's good if their clothing style is rectified; it harms no one.
Efforts are made to rectify this.
But this is not crucial for preparedness of a combat; let alone wearing rank under the field jacket, EPRDF defeated Dergue without having something to wear inside the field jacket; there are difficulties over benefits; Regerding what's being assumed-the army's moral's down, well, it is difficult to give responses to questions that are raised with assumption; but the moral of the army's not down; it efficiently accomplished its duties; it will accomplish in the future, too," he enumerated.
With regards to the reduction of the army, to the question as to why we reduced to number of our soldiers while EPlF hasn't done so, "EPLF reduction or not reducing is not related to our condition; we have studied the sufficient number of soldiers to protect ourselves and reduced those who have less influence" he sail.
As to the question raised in relation to national reconciliation, "since the struggle is a struggle for democracy, there's no one that would intervene and say leave this or leave that; reconciliation means all parties along with what they agree, and continue struggling with what they don't.
National reconciliation is not being without principles.
National reconciliation is treating differences in outlook in a civilized way; Does reconciliation mean being legal and illegal and go along by mixing the two? Situation like being legal and illegal were observed; the Algiers agreement which this council approved was presented to the General Secretary UN as if it were not accepted by Ethiopian people.
Although the act of writing doesn't bring basic change, this is mistake.
It is illegal.
If the call presented to us to work with those who are in armed struggle is based on a feeling of let's operate legally as well as illegally, it is absolutely incorrect" he reminded.
How could apposing what the council approves peacefully and struggling this be illegal?  There may be observers who ask this; Observers argue that let alone the Algiers agreement, it's a right to peacefully struggle to ask for amendment of the constitution itself, while respecting the constitution.
"Since the question the opposition raised states that the decision that passed at the time Ethiopian didn't get an outlet port would endanger, we don't understand why this makes people who claim to be representatives of Ethiopia angry, why don't they clearly tell us to whom they are arguing" observers are highly criticizing it.
Prime Minister Meles also gave responses to questions raised vis-à-vis corruption; is the corruption campaign on those who are dismissed from EPRDF and bank officials?
To this question, he responded, "we know this is being widely said; if we focused first on the political leadership, we then move to the next crucial stage; this doesn't mean we will carry and go with the corrupter at the district level" started Meles Zenawi, "in stead of raising a question is there no corruptor?
Let's have tangible evidence that shows there's a corrupter; simply asking is there no person involved in corruption?
With out having evidence it seems to deviate the anti-corruption struggle; it seems to impede the struggle against corruption," and continued, "it reminds one the story of the thief who was found in the midst of a market place, who called of a market place, who called another a thief and the customers were unable to identify him so that all saw one another suspiciously," It's repeatedly reported that there are among TPLF that could be mentioned by name, as well as from ANDF who refused to pay the money they borrowed from the bank, who even violated the court of law's order are still in power.
Were have you been when there was a lot of corruption going on for 10 years?
Won't the prime minister be accountable for this?
Doesn't the board have responsibility?
With regards to these questions Prime Minster started his responses, by mentioning the organization "Transparency International" and the testimony it gave about Ethiopia that she's better than any other African countries regarding corruption, "This is not, however, something we should be proud of," continued Meles Zenawi formerly, we used to sack people after evaluating them, from their work but the law has been an impediment; in the struggle we made for four tears that anti-corruption institution has been established, and the anti-corruption struggle has been in order.
Even now, we don't believe that we can wipe away corruption once and for all, but to control it, he said.
If the Prime Minister leaves his power just because corruption occurred in the country there won't be any prime minister in Ethiopia suggesting that it's not proper to ask him to leave power due to this; well the negligence not to follow up the corruption in the commercial bank to such an extent may put one politically accountable, confessing his guilt to a certain extent; but this doesn't mean a collaboration in the corruption, he said.
We have even given in our brother who bled in the struggle, trying to demonstrate his decisiveness with regards to corruption.
The 1 billion Birr that was said to go to Eritrean is a fictional story; the money didn't go from have through an order it has gone due to the trade transactions banks have with another banks," said Meles Zenawi and continued that the issue of this money hasn't been resolved.
When Eritrea changed the money she used to have to Nekfa, she wanted the Birrs that were in her bank to be exchanged by dollars; and we were not willing to exchange the money by dollars, so this issue was not resolved.
Hence, they should that this 1 billion Birr could be compensated.
"It's to be understood that asking for a return of the 1 billion Birr also would bring about a problem," he reminded.
As to the question which says that he lives hiding from the people; while you're not willing to talk oppositions here, but you talk oppositions who live abroad, "I thank the AAPO representative for your advise; since there's no time it would be difficult to give suggestions," he concluded.
With regards to issue pertaining to TPLF companies taking more that 1 billion Birr from the bank with out any guarantee; not paying back the money, the prime minister of any of the other EPRDF leadership passed with out giving response.
Who have made these companies of the leadership take the money without guarantee?
Won't the individual who ordered the money to be given to these companies be accountable?
Since these organizations haven't paid off their debts as well as the interests, does the bank, just like any other business organizations, gave the right to sell their properties?
And all other basic and burning questions were not answered.
Observers say that this silence is a proof that shows TPLF organizations controlled the economy of the country by the money that was taken from the bank without any guarantee.
From Ethiop February 6, 2002
Meles is Studying to Reshuffle his Cabinet
In order to revive his government from the political loss it had recently, Prime Minister Meles Planned to reshuffle his cabinet of Ministers, it was heard.
According to the insiders, the reshuffling many include reassigning certain people to a lower rank and give them positions of state ministers and others would be sent away from the county as diplomats.
It was also told that there would be several ministers who would keep continuing as ministers.
The sources told, "The government of Meles is studying to reshuffle his second Federal government".
As an example, they mentioned the study that was done by Dr. Kassu Ilala, Minister of Infrastructure.
According to the sources, there's a plan to assign Dr. Kassu in the place of Mr. Bisrat Nigatu, Ethiopian Airlines General Manager.
Based on the structure of the new cabinet ministers, the ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for ten organizations under it;
they are Ethiopian Roads Authority, Civil Aviation Authority, Road Transport Authority, Office of Road Repair, National Gas Depo Administration, Ethiopian Postal Service organization, Ethiopian Telecommunication Agency, Ethiopian Electric Agency, and Ethiopian Electric and Light Power Authority, Ethiopian Telecommunication Corporation.
Dr. Kasu would be ejected from this position and be assigned in place of Mr. Besrat and would take the post of the former state minister of city Development Ministry, Mr. Haile Asegde, the sources disclosed.
But there's no word as to who Meles would assign after Mr. Bisrat was ejected from this national airline that's at the moment must try to make a lot of efforts to compete with other airlines.
It's not clearly known as to why it was necessary for Prime Minister Meles government to reshuffle the new cabinet which was not even 4 months since its formation.
But some political observers say that it's to receive political gain, although from the outset assigning people who are not capable and then, all of a sudden, reassigning capable ones wouldn't change as long as the key positions are held by TPLF members, the observers disclosed.
On the other hand, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Seyoum Mesfin, ordered ambassadors who have been assigned and working in different countries to come to Addis Ababa and are now under evaluation by Ethiopian Map work organization.
In this ambassador's evaluation which started on Wednesday, January 23, 2002 and was said to stay for 15 days, the number of ambassadors who were present were only 30, which made it a talking-point.
It doesn't seem healthy for Mr. Seyoum to call all ambassadors who have been disseminated all over the world, being active for the last 10 years, yet, to have only 30 of them coming back to discuss about the future foreign diplomatic strategies.
According to the disclosure of the newspaper's source, those who realized there would be reshuffling of ambassadors, remained in the county where they were assigned, asking for political refugee.
However, it declined to give, names for the moment of those ambassadors who stayed there.
Yet, promised to reveal their identity to the newspaper after some investigation has been made.
The 30 ambassadors' evaluation that's going on at the hall of Ethiopian Map works organization, is led by Mr. Seyoum Mesfin as a chairman, Mr. Girma Biru, Mr. Sufyan Ahmed, and Commissioner Yousuf Abdulahi were participants, it was reported.
It was to be recalled that one high level diplomat has deserted recently.
From Medina January 29, 2002
The Second Segment of the Axum Obelisk Arrived
The Second segment of the Axum Obelisk arrived in Axum town yesterday morning after a lot of years as a result of high diplomatic relationship and cooperation of Ethiopian and Italian government.
The member of the committee of or the Return of the Axum Obelisk, Mr. Fisseha Zebelo disclosed that the part which reached Axum town yesterday is the base of the obelisk.
The Weight of the segment which is the base of the obelisk is 58.9 ton while the length is 7.1 meters.
The Italian Ambassador for Ethiopia, Guido Latela, expressed on the occasion said that the fact that Axum obelisk returned home after 68 years in Rome would enable to grow the economic and social cooperation apart form strengthening the relationship of the two counties.
The third segment and the top most part of the obelisk is scheduled to arrive have next Monday, the ambassador disclosed.
When the second segment of the obelisk arrived in Axum, the members of the National committee for the Return of the Axum obelisk and area officials welcomed it.
When the first segment of the obelisk arrived in Axum last Tuesday more than 50 thousand residents, higher government officials and guests were present.
From Addis Zemen April 23, 2005
China is said to Construct a Railway for Eritrea
The Chinese Ambassador for Eritrea Mr. Chen Chan Fuh is said to have a talk on the ways china would engage in business construction and infrastructure.
The ways China could engage especially in Communication transport, agriculture and medicine in Eritrea would be create, the Eritrean officials disclosed.
An 11-member team led by Wang Kanshuh who came from china, Anan district, have consultation with ministry of communication and Transport, and health ministry, and started discussing ways to create better relations in the two sectors, voice of Germany reported.
The team discussed ways in which China could construct a rail way, as well as in the health sector, they discussed ways in which Eritreans could be sent to China for medical education.
In Particular, there was a special focus on Chinese traditional medicine, acupuncture, the report of the German radio disclosed.
In the mean time, Eritrea's plan to have relations with China at this time was not only for this, said military observers, that Eritrea would make special effort to get Chinese-made ammunitions, they hoped.
From Fiameta September 15, 1999
Edmund Pope tasted freedom today for the first time in more than eight months.
Pope is the American businessman who was convicted last week on spying charges and sentenced to 20 years in a Russian prison.
He denied any wrongdoing.
Russian President Vladimir Putin pardoned him for health reasons.
Pope was flown to the U.S. military base at Ramstein, Germany.
He will spend the next several days at the medical center there before he returns home with his wife Sherry.
Pope was in remission from a rare form of bone cancer when he was arrested in Russia.
Doctors will examine him for signs that the cancer may have come back while he awaiting trial in a Russian jail.
A spokeswoman said that Pope was suffering from malnutrition and high blood pressure.
2Slick pointed me to a article at In Iraq For 365.
This is a great blog and I encourage you all to read it regularly.
On Sunday he wrote of two Iraqi soldiers who didn't see us as conquerors but as allies when the Mosul bombing occurred.
The suicide bomb sprayed bb-like fragments throughout the Marez dining facility.
One piece of shrapnel sliced through the femoral artery of a U.S. soldier and his only chance for survival was in the hands of these two Iraqis.
Recalling the medical classes they'd received from the special forces, the Iraqis reacted calmly, fastening a belt above the wound, creating a tourniquet, which stopped the gushing stream of red.
They moved the soldier to a MEDVAC vehicle via two-man litter carry.
After they hoisted the soldier in the truck, the two Iraqis -- one an officer, the other an NCO -- ran back to the facility and began treating the other wounded without regard for their safety.
When the dust settled and the mess tent had been evacuated, everybody who could talk was questioned about their health.
When the medics came to the two Iraqis, the ING soldiers only wanted to know how everybody else was.
When asked why did they do it, they simply stated, "this was our duty; we are a team, and we take care of each other."
Even the Americans.
No matter what the MSM tries to tell you, there are Iraqi's who will help the allies, who will fight alongside them and put their lives at risk to make sure Democracy succeeds in their country.
This brings to mind a speech Prime Minister Tony Blair gave recently while visiting Iraq.
When I meet the people working alongside the United Nations--Iraqis in fear of their life every day, because they are trying to bring freedom and democracy to their people--when I see their courage and their determination and know that they speak for the vast majority of people in Iraq who want that democracy and freedom, then I know that we are doing the right thing.
And I will also say this to you: There are people dying in Iraq, but the reason people are dying is because of the terrorism and the intimidation and the people who are deliberately killing anyone trying to make this country better.
Now what should our response be as an international community?
Our response should be to stand alongside the democrats--the people who've got the courage to see this thing through--and help them see it through.
I've got no doubt at all that that is the right thing for us to do.
Sometimes when I see some of the reporting of what's happening in Iraq in the rest of the world, I just feel that people should understand how precious what has been created here is.
And those people from that electoral commission that I described as the heroes of the new Iraq--every day ... a lot of them aren't living in the Green Zone, they've got to travel in from outside.
They do not know at any point in time whether they're going to be subject to brutality or intimidation, even death, and yet they carry on doing it.
Now what a magnificent example of the human spirit--that's the side we should be on.
A Russian scientist has told a Moscow City court that the information an American businessman allegedly tried to purchase about a Russian torpedo is commonly available and not a state secret.
The scientist, an expert on the torpedo and a defense witness at the trial of businessman Edmond Pope said he had often used the torpedo information for his research and had spoken openly about it.
A defense lawyer said the testimony would help his client.
In 1998, the United States voted against the creation of the World's first permanent International War Crimes Court.
President Clinton still has a chance to sign the treaty creating the Court before a final deadline this Sunday.
Advocates are pressing him to do just that, but Conservatives in Congress and Pentagon officials don't want the US to join the treaty.
The World's Jeb Sharp explains why.
Jesse Helms, the Conservative and powerful Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has made it clear the Rome's statuette would be dead on arrival if it were brought to Congress for ratification.
But proponents of the permanent International Criminal Court would still like to see President Clinton at least sign the treaty before the New Year's eve deadline.
Richard Dicker of Human Rights Watch says Clinton's signature would be an important symbolic gesture.
What he will accomplish is making a clear statement that the United States not only in the former Yugoslavia, not only in Rwanda, not only in Cambodia, not only in Sierra Leone, where the administration has supported efforts at justice, but worldwide the United States supports the rule of law and supports holding those accused of genocide to account under the highest standards of due process.
But the opposition here in the United States is intense.
It comes mainly from the Pentagon where US military officials fear the Court will leave Americans vulnerable to politically motivated prosecutions.
Negotiators have tried to include safeguards in the treaty to address those fears, but stop short of exempting US personnel from prosecution.
John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute shares the Pentagon's objections.
I think there is every prospect such a court and its prosecutor would be highly politicized and the principal target of a court like this might well turn out to be the United States or Israel or other countries like that.
Bolton says that almost happened at the War Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, when Chief Prosecutor Carla Delponte briefly contemplated an investigation of NATO's bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999.
But proponents of the court say it's healthy for the United States and its allies to come under the same scrutiny as other countries.
Richard Dicker of Human Rights Watch says Delponte's handling of the NATO case was exemplary.
Carla Delponte was acting as any responsible prosecutor must when she receives credible allegations of wrongdoing.
She looked into those allegations and then after an appropriate investigation she dismissed them.
Richard Dicker says President Clinton should keep the promise he made to the Rwandan people in 1998 when he told survivors of the genocide there the United States would support the International Court.
But John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute says a Clinton signature in the face of stiff domestic opposition would be meaningless.
I think it's a symbolic act that doesn't achieve much, but I don't think anybody internationally should think that whatever President Clinton does will have the slightest impact on the next administration.
Despite American objections, the International Criminal Court enjoys wide support worldwide and among major US allies.
131 countries have signed the treaty, 7 today and 25 have ratified it.
60 nations in all must ratify the treaty for the International Criminal Court to come into existence.
That's expected to happen, with or without US support, in 2002.
For The World, I'm Jeb Sharp.
This is PRI, Public Radio International.
The skeleton of a second baby has been found at a rural Wisconsin home where a 22-year-old woman's dead infant was discovered in a blue plastic container June 8, officials said Monday.
Kristin Scott, the mother, told police she gave birth secretly to both babies at her parents' home in Byrds Creek, Richland County, one of unknown sex in April 2001 and the other, a fullterm girl, January 14.
Police arrested her in Abilene, Texas, Saturday where she had moved with a friend June 2.
She is being held on 50,000 dollars bail on a charge of first-degree reckless homicide and hiding a corpse in the death of the infant born in January.
Scott told police she did not tend to the baby, and it died after 30 minutes.
She said the baby had to die, according to the criminal complaint.
The woman's parents, William and Nancy Scott, found the decomposing body of the first baby in her closet after they went looking for the source of a foul odor in their house.
Scott told investigators she had moved that body around before she moved to Texas, sometimes in the closet at the Byrds Creek house, in the trunk of her car and in the closet of her apartment in Richland Center, the complaint said.
The sheriff released no other details about the second baby.
A retired navy officer facing life in prison over a failed effort to protect Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, told a court Thursday he felt remorse for his part in the 1999 plot.
``I have a guilty conscience,'' Andonis Naxakis said during his two-hour testimony.
Naxakis is one of 13 people on trial for bringing the fugitive guerrilla leader to Greece.
Ocalan was moved by the government to its embassy compound in Kenya, where he was captured by Turkish commandos.
The retired Greek officer said he had been trying to get Ocalan to The Netherlands, home to a large Kurdish community.
He claimed he had been manipulated by the government.
``I believe I was unwittingly used as bait for its disgraceful plan ... an organized move by the government to hand Ocalan over to Turkey,'' he said.
Naxakis and two of Ocalan's Kurdish associates are being tried on criminal charges of endangering national security.
Ocalan, being tried in absentia, was indicted for entering the country illegally, a misdemeanor.
Ocalan, leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, is serving a life sentence in Turkey for leading a 15-year insurgency against the country that left 37,000 people dead.
He is being tried in Greece in absentia.
Chris Matthews, that idiot talking head over at MSNBC, said yesterday about the terrorists we fought in Fallujah "a rival, I mean they're not bad guys especially, just people who just disagree with us".
...this just amazes me, the complete idiocy of this waste of human sperm.
These are the same terrorists blowing up families, chopping off heads of civilians, and the complete disregard for any human life and they just disagree with us?
Tell that to the family of Margaret Hassan, the school teacher who was brutally tortured and then slaughtered by these same guys, they ain't so bad are they Chris Matthews?
This women who was known for her 30 years of work in Iraq, distributing medicine, food and supplies to Iraqis suffering under the sanctions of the 1990s.
British officials say they believe Hassan was a blindfolded woman seen being shot in the head by a hooded militant on a video obtained but not aired by the Arab television station Al-Jazeera.
She would be the first foreign woman to die in the wave of kidnappings in Iraq.
No group has claimed responsibility.
On Sunday, Marines found the mutilated body of what they believe was a Western woman on a street in Fallujah during the U.S. assault on the insurgent stronghold.
The body, clothed in what appeared to be a purple, velour dress, was wrapped in a blanket, with a blood-soaked black cloth nearby.
As of Tuesday night, the U.S. command said the body had not been identified.
These are the reasons that none of these mothereffers should ever see the light of day.
..they need to be all lined up and shot.
Torturing this poor women for what?
WHAT?
And we should treat them as enemy soldiers under the Geneva Convention.
Last I remember the convention applies to countries that signed the document and the two countries must have standing armies with uniforms.
...the Iraqi military is at our side, the terrorists are not.
Since when are terrorists soldiers?
They are lower then dogs.
Finally there is this written by a student of Mrs. Hassan She was my English teacher.
In the memory of my teacher and a fellow aid worker colleague Mrs. M. Hassan.
Mrs. Hassan was my English teacher in The British Council in Baghdad in Al-Wazirya district, I remember her years ago with her Irish accent telling me it's not Important how many words I must learn but the pronunciation of the words I already knew must be perfected.
Mrs. Hassan speak s perfect Arabic and she has a heart of gold, she's been killed by (men in pajamas), turn Iraq upside down and find them.
The Marines will find them, and when they do they shall die.
Apparently Yuganskneftegaz, which was sold to an independent buyer who turned out to be an apparatus of the state (yes, the same state that 1) forced Yukos to do the auction, and 2) ran the auction, not that 3) this is suspicious or anything), and which was then being bought with foreign assistance, is not being bought with foreign assistance.
As of this morning, at least.
Anyway, it looks like they're denying Chinese involvement to avoid a lawsuit , which is funny -- you'd think they might know someone in the Russian judiciary who could help them out.
Kurdish militiamen and U.S. special operations troops linked up with more than 1,000 U.S. Army paratroopers Thursday to secure the area around a strategic air strip, as the first large coalition ground force in northern Iraq began opening another front against Saddam Hussein's regime.
The Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade , including elite Army Rangers, jumped out of low-flying C-17 transport planes under cover of darkness Wednesday and secured a snow-dusted airfield, which will be used to bring in supplies and support personnel.
The airdrop -- one of the biggest paratroop drops in decades -- was a dramatic entry for ground troops into a region where only small groups of U.S. special forces have been operating.
Coalition airstrikes have been hitting Iraqi military forces and other strategic targets in the north.
``This tightens the noose against Saddam's forces battling coalition forces to the south,'' Brig. Gen. James Parker, commander of U.S. forces in the north.
``And it may also serve as a warning to Turkish forces.''
Giving cover for the deployment, U.S. warplanes struck Iraqi ground troops and bunkers in northern Iraq.
Three waves of combat planes from the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt hit ``ground troops, command and control bunkers, artillery positions and ... a surface to air missile battery,'' said Lt. John Oliveira, the ship's public affair officer.
Around dawn Thursday, strikes resumed, with a massive explosion just outside the Kurdish zone close to the village of Kalak.
Warplanes pounded forward Iraqi positions in the hills overlooking Chamchamal, 35 kilometers (22 miles) east of the key oil city of Kirkuk.
Later Thursday, Kurdish troops in Chamchamal advanced their positions between government-controlled and rebel-controlled areas, taking over a Iraqi check point on their front with no fighting at this point, witnesses said.
Early Thursday, Kurdish fighters closed off a highway and roads near the airstrip where troops were said to be arriving, outside the town of Bashur, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) northeast of the Kurd-controlled city of Irbil and 30 miles (50 kilometers) south of the Turkish border.
From the highway, dusted from a recent snow, a flashing light from the airstrip's control tower was visible in the distance, and three helicopters could be seen landing, flying with nearly all their lights extinguished.
Future airlifts into the area will include supplies and support personnel for the 173rd's fighters, defense officials said.
The airfield's 6,700-foot (2,042-meter) runway is long enough to land C-17s and other U.S. military cargo planes.
Lt. Col. Thomas Collins, a spokesman for the U.S. Army's Southern European Task Force, refused to say whether the paratroopers deployed directly from Italy into Iraq or had taken a different route.
The matter immediately sparked controversy in Italy, where there is a strong anti-war movement.
The country's parliament voted this month to allow U.S.-led coalition forces to use Italian air space and military bases -- but not for directs attacks on Iraq.
Pentagon officials have said for weeks they would have U.S. forces in northern Iraq to open another front against Saddam's forces.
The vast majority of the coalition ground troops in Iraq are moving toward Baghdad from the south after entering from Kuwait.
Pentagon officials had hoped to have the Army's 4th Infantry Division invade Iraq from the north, but Turkey balked at allowing up to 62,000 U.S. troops on its soil to prepare for that option.
The use of the 173rd shows the military has shifted to a smaller, lighter force.
Military officials say they would have liked to have secured key oil fields around the northern cities of Mosul and Kirkuk -- and perhaps the cities themselves -- by now.
Though no hostilities were expected during the deployment, the 173rd decided to parachute in rather then ferry troops in by plane so that a significant combat force could mass almost immediately to protect itself, officers said, according to a U.S. reporter traveling with the 173rd.
``Kirkuk is key.
The Iraqi's want it, the Kurds want it, the Turks want it and various other ethnic groups also want it,'' Maj. Mike Hastings said.
``What this drop means is that we can secure it until we are relieved by other forces.''
Besides Mosul and Kirkuk, another key target in northern Iraq is Tikrit, Saddam's hometown and the tribal center for most of his inner circle.
Most of the Adnan Division of the Republican Guard relocated from the Mosul area to the Tikrit area shortly before the war began.
Another key mission for the 173rd could be to keep order in northern Iraq, which is controlled by two semi-autonomous Kurdish factions but also includes several splinter groups and a base for the al-Qaida-linked Ansar al-Islam.
Turkey has said it may send more troops into northern Iraq to prevent refugees from moving north, while U.S. officials have said they advised Turkey against sending large additional forces into northern Iraq.
Russia's Presidential Clemency Commission is advising president Vladimir Putin to release convicted American spy Edmund Pope on humanitarian grounds.
A top Putin aide says Pope could be home by Christmas.
However, according to Russian law, Putin cannot issue a pardon any earlier than December.
Pope was convicted of espionage Wednesday in Moscow and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
He suffers from a rare form of bone cancer and has asked Putin to let him return to the U.S. to receive medical care.
The summit is coinciding with more unrest in several areas of the West Bank and Gaza strip.
Hundreds of stone-throwing Palestinians stormed the Israeli-controlled section of Hebron, breaking a curfew imposed since the outbreak of the unrest last month.
Witnesses said Israeli soldiers fired live ammunition and rubber-coated metal bullets, wounding at least seven people.
Thousands of Palestinian demonstrators marched in the area to protest against a renewal of contacts with Israel.
The Navy now says it will cost about $240 million to get the "USS Cole" up and running again.
Officials originally estimated it would cost $150 million to repair the gaping hole in the ship's midsection.
But a Naval official says that does not include the cost of replacing equipment and weapons damaged in the attack carried out by suicide bombers in Yemen.
The ship is scheduled to arrive in Mississippi in about ten days.
Tens of thousands of people took to the streets across the Middle East Thursday, demonstrating against military strikes on Iraq and calling on Muslims to wage jihad against the United States and its allies.
Lebanon and the Palestinian Authority issued fierce denunciations of the US-led attacks, while the Egyptian government daily Al-Ahram warned it marked "the beginning an era of US colonisation that will benefit only Israel".
Protests against the action aimed at toppling Iraqi President Saddam Hussein were held in cities across Libya, Egypt and Lebanon, as well as in Amman, Damascus and the Gaza Strip.
However, there were no reports of protests against the war from the Gulf states, many of whom are host to US military personnel.
Saudi Arabia, however, expressed its "deep concern" and regret over the start of US military operations.
Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal spoke of the "kingdom's hope for a quick halt in military action and for the return to peaceful efforts", the state SPA news agency reported.
In Riyadh's first reaction to the start of the against, he also called for Iraq's "unity, internal security and territorial integrity" to be preserved and rejected military occupation.
Lebanese President Emile Lahoud, meanwhile, was more forthright, strongly denouncing Washington's "aggression" and warning that it could have repercussions beyond the borders of the pariah state.
"We have warned against the marginalisation of the United Nations ... and we see this aggression today plunging the world into a tunnel where one cannot see the end," he said in a statement.
"For these reasons, we judge that it is necessary that the forces of peace and those who believe in right and justice take the necessary and rapid steps to halt this dangerous slide into war against Iraq which will result in heavy human and material losses."
The Palestinian Authority also condemned Thursday's early morning missile strikes on Iraq, and warned Israel not to exploit the conflict.
"We Palestinians are against the war and we totally condemn this war in the Middle East.
A solution must be found to this problem through diplomatic means, with the international community," local authorities minister Saeb Erakat said.
"We are warning Israel not to exploit this war against Iraq to carry out more attacks against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip and destroy the Palestinian Authority and the peace process," he said.
The radical Palestinian movement Islamic Jihad warned that "the war against Iraq is a war against the whole region", while Hamas issued a chilling warning against those taking part in the war against Iraq.
"The aggression by the vile Americans and the war against Iraq signifies a war against all Arabs and Muslims around the world," said Hamas senior official Abdul Aziz al-Rantissi.
The war "shows the impotence of all Arab states.
We call on all Arab states to act immediately to defend Iraq and counter the US war," he said.
"I don't think America will win this war, as our jihad (holy war) and our resistance will teach the Americans and British a lesson they will never forget," he said.
State radio in Syria accused the United States and its allies of wanting to get their "hands on Iraq's oil and wealth and impose their hegemony on the world".
In the Egyptian capital, 10 demonstrators and at least four policeman were injured in clashes after several thousand demonstrators took to the streets near the US and British embassies.
Riot police intervened after the protestors, who included hundreds of students from the American University in Cairo, rallied on the city's central Tahrir Square, close to both the university campus and the US embassy.
More than 1,000 people also gathered at Cairo's Al-Azhar Islamic University, where they burned an American flag and demanded the expulsion of the ambassadors of the United States, Britain, Spain and Israel.
Demonstrations also took place in the northern Egyptian cities of Alexandria, Tanta and Kafr el-Sheikh.
In Amman, three protestors were hospitalised after some 500 Jordanian lawyers staged a sit-in at the main court house after being forcibly blocked by riot police from marching towards the Iraqi embassy to show their solidarity.
In Lebanon, hundreds of students gathered on the campuses of the Arab University of Beirut and the American University of Beirut calling for the assassination of US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
South of the capital in Sidon, some 1,500 schoolboys denounced "the Bush assassin" and the "silence of the Arab leaders who sold out Iraq".
It's now been almost two months since the worst terror attack on a U.S. Navy ship, the destroyer "Cole," and tonight, sources tell NBC News that an American Muslim militant, a prime suspect in planning the attack, is now in custody in Jordan.
His name is Jaed Hijazi, and NBC News has learned he's got direct high-level ties to the terrorist Osama bin Laden.
He's reportedly told U.S. investigators of additional plans, to attack U.S. military aircraft in the Persian Gulf and Middle East.
A U.S.-sponsored forum that brought Iraqi opposition leaders together to shape the country's postwar government began Tuesday with a U.S. promise not to rule Iraq and concluded with an agreement to meet again in 10 days.
Meeting in the biblical birthplace of the prophet Abraham, delegates from Iraq's many factions discussed the role of religion in the future government and ways to rebuild the country.
But some Shiite Muslim groups boycotted the meeting and thousands protested nearby.
A 13-point statement released after the meeting stressed the need to work toward a democratic Iraq built on the rule of law and equality.
It also called for dissolving Saddam's Baath Party but left open the question of separating church from the state.
Retired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who will head the U.S.-led interim administration in Iraq, opened the conference under a golden-colored tent in the shadows of the 4,000-year-old ziggurat at Ur, a terraced temple platform of the ancient Sumerians.
``What better birthday can a man have than to begin it not only where civilization began but where a free Iraq and a democratic Iraq will begin today?'' said Garner, who turned 65 Tuesday and wore a twin American and Iraqi flag pin on his blue shirt.
White House envoy Zalmay Khalilzad told delegates that the United States has ``no interest, absolutely no interest, in ruling Iraq.''
``We want you to establish your own democratic system based on Iraqi traditions and values,'' Khalilzad said.
``I urge you to take this opportunity to cooperate with each other.''
Participants included Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites from inside the country and others who spent years in exile.
U.S. officials invited the groups, which picked their own representatives.
Many Iraqis boycotted the meeting in opposition to U.S. plans to install Garner atop an interim administration.
Thousands of Shiites -- who constitute Iraq's most populous religious group but were repressed under Saddam Hussein -- demonstrated in nearby Nasiriyah, chanting ``No to America and no to Saddam!''
``Iraq needs an Iraqi interim government.
Anything other than this tramples the rights of the Iraqi people and will be a return to the era of colonization,'' said Abdul Aziz Hakim, a leader of the largest Iraqi Shiite group, the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq.
U.S. officials hope more Iraqis join the process and stressed that this was just the first of many such meetings in Iraq.
The meeting concluded with the delegates voting by show of hands to meet again in 10 days.
A national conference is planned to select the interim administration, perhaps within weeks, a senior U.S. official said on condition of anonymity.
The interim administration could begin handing power back to Iraqi officials within three to six months, but forming a government will take longer, said Maj. Gen. Tim Cross, the top British member of Garner's team.
``One has to go through the process of building from the bottom up, allowing the leadership to establish itself, and then the election process to go through and so forth,'' Cross said.
``That full electoral process may well take longer.''
Garner's Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance is charged with coordinating humanitarian assistance, rebuilding infrastructure shattered by years of war and U.N. sanctions, and gradually handing back power to Iraqis leading a democratically elected government.
Tuesday's meeting was the first step toward that goal after the ouster of Saddam.
Sheik Ayad Jamal Al Din, a Shiite religious leader from Nasiriyah, urged the delegates to craft a secular government, according to a pool report.
But Nassar Hussein Musawi, a schoolteacher, disagreed: ``Those who would like to separate religion from the state are simply dreaming,'' he said.
Iraqi exile Hatem Mukhliss quoted President John F. Kennedy's exhortation, ``Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country,'' and called on Iraqis to write a constitution, establish a legal system and consider what role the army should play.
He asked coalition representatives to address problems of security, electricity and water in Iraq and help rebuild destroyed and looted hospitals.
``Saddam reduced the country to such a state that it was necessary for people to sell off personal possessions,'' Mukhliss said.
``Now it's time to take our country back.''
There are already tensions between the United States and some Iraqi factions.
Kurdish groups appear unwilling to compromise on their demand to expand the border of their autonomous area to include the oil-rich city of Kirkuk and Kurdish parts of the city of Mosul.
That could pose a problem for the United States, because Turkey worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk could lead to aspirations for independence and in turn encourage separatist Kurds in Turkey.
Iraqi opposition leaders fear the United States is trying to force Ahmed Chalabi, head of the London-based umbrella Iraqi National Congress, on them as leader of a new Iraqi administration.
Chalabi was the first top Iraqi opposition leader to be airlifted by the U.S. military into southern Iraq as the fighting wound down, and he and other top members of his group plan to meet soon in Baghdad.
U.S. officials said Chalabi was brought in because he offered forces to the coalition.
Neither Chalabi nor many other leaders of anti-Saddam groups attended Tuesday's meeting, but they sent delegates.
Iraqis protesting the conference said it did not represent their interests.
The protesters held banners written in English and Arabic saying the ``Hawza,'' or the Shiite religious seminary in Najaf, represents them.
Even some of those at the meeting said they did not want Garner leading the interim administration.
``We will press for any Iraqi civilian administration regardless of what the Americans say.
An administration by Garner is not acceptable,'' said Mowaffak al-Rubaie, an Iraqi physician and opposition activist.
He said American officials have outlined what Garner's administration would look like: Each ministry would be headed by an American, either military or civilian.
Each minister would have two American deputies and eight American advisers, plus four Iraqi advisers from inside the country and four Iraqi exiles.
Associated Press writer Patrick McDowell in Kuwait City contributed to this report.
Iraq's U.N. Ambassador Mohammed Al-Douri, the first Iraqi official to concede defeat in the U.S.-led war, met privately with Secretary-General Kofi Annan, but refused to talk about rumors that he was planning to leave New York.
``I am sorry,'' he said.
``No Answer.''
``No comment at all.
This is my last word to you,'' he told hordes of journalists who chased him Thursday at his New York residence and U.N. headquarters seeking comment on his talks with the secretary-general, his future and the war.
Asked who should govern Iraq, Al-Douri said: ``I have nothing to do with that.''
Annan also declined to comment on Thursday's meeting with Al-Douri.
With the fall of Baghdad Wednesday, Al-Douri declared ``the game is over'' and expressed hope that the Iraqi people will now be able to live in peace.
He said he had not been in touch with Baghdad.
Beside meeting with Annan, Al-Douri spent several hours during the late morning and afternoon meeting with ambassadors and diplomats in the Delegate's Lounge.
``I wished him good luck but I don't know what he said to the secretary-general and what will be his next steps,'' said Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, who talked with Al-Douri before his own meeting with Annan.
In an interview with The Associated Press Wednesday night, Al-Douri said he will continue to work at the United Nations and had no intention of defecting.
``Defecting from who?'' he asked.
``I think the government has already defected.
There is no more Iraqi government to be defected from.''
Annan said early Thursday -- before meeting Al-Douri -- that in talks with the envoy Monday, ``he didn't ask for an asylum or protection ... (and) he didn't ask me for help with his status.''
``We did talk about what happens, depending on the evolution of things on the ground,'' Annan said.
The ambassador had vehemently defended his country for months as the United States and its allies sought U.N. backing for war on Iraq.
Privately, many U.N. diplomats see him as a respectable colleague.
``I sympathize with his need to create a new life for himself,'' said Britain's U.N. Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock.
Al-Douri taught international law at Baghdad University for over 30 years before becoming a diplomat in 1999, first at the United Nations in Geneva and since early 2001 at U.N. headquarters in New York.
He said in the AP interview he would love to return to teaching but for now he plans to remain at the United Nations.
``Things will be crystalized one day,'' he said.
``What I worried about is that things are settled in the country ... so in the future the Iraqi people will live in peace without sanctions, without wars, without suffering.
This is my message.''
Separately, lawyers who claim that Iraq helped plan the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people asked a judge at a federal court in New York to force Al-Douri to testify in the case and hold the envoy in contempt, saying they worry that he would flee the country.
But U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said Al-Douri still has diplomatic immunity as Iraq's ambassador.
Under U.N. rules, a new Iraqi government would have to ask to represent the country, which the General Assembly would then consider.
``He is still Iraq's ambassador at the United Nations,'' White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said in Washington.
``Legally, that is the way it works at the U.N.''
Larry Klayman, chairman of Judicial Watch, which represent 14 survivors and victims' relatives who have filed a $1.5 billion federal lawsuit against Iraq in Washington, said his organization had served a subpoena on Al-Douri twice, on March 26 and March 28, but said he has not responded.
U.S. District Judge John S. Martin did not immediately rule but scheduled a hearing for next week.
The April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah federal building was the deadliest terrorist strike on American soil at the time.
The suit claims Iraqi officials provided money and training to convicted bomber Timothy McVeigh and conspirator Terry Nichols.
McVeigh was executed in 2001, and Nichols is serving a life sentence.
In Moscow, today there was a dramatic plot twist in a real life courtroom drama.
A lawyer for US spy suspect, Edmond Pope said that the main prosecution witness has retracted his testimony.
According to Pope's attorney the witness said he provided the evidence under pressure from the Russian Secret Service.
Ever since Pope was arrested 7 months ago, the American businessmen has denied charges that he was gathering secret information on a new high-speed Russian torpedo.
The World's Nenad Sebek is following the trial in Moscow.
Nenad, go back and tell us just how we got here.
Who is Edwin Pope and why is he on trial in Russia.
Well, Edwin Pope is a retired American intelligence officer and that's sort of speaks against him when it comes to the Russian public and certainly the Russian court.
He has claimed that he is now just an innocent businessman, who was dealing with the Russian businesses orbit in the Defense Industry.
He has, however, claimed that he is only dealing with the de-classified military material and that when it comes to these torpedoes that we are talking about, that he was buying an underwater propulsion system, which is 10-years old.
What the Russian prosecution is claiming is that Pope was actually after ultramodern secret high-speed Russian torpedoes.
Okay, so tell us what happened in the trial this morning and bring in this professor from one of Moscow's elite universities who is a key witness.
The big news of today was that Pope's attorney distributed to journalists this morning a letter, which he says was written by Anatoly Babkin, who is a Professor at Moscow's Bauman Technical Institute, who until now was considered to be the main witness for the prosecution.
He says that he gave that evidence under pressure having had a grave heart condition proceeding a heart attack.
Professor Babkin says that he never actually met Edwin Pope face to face, nor has he given him any kind of sensitive information, therefore, his former testimony is to be considered as not corresponding to reality says this letter by Professor Babkin.
However, the court today again, this is what we were told by Pope's lawyer, has decided not to accept this change in testimony.
The court said that Professor Babkin had ample opportunities to appear in the court.
What is not clear at this moment is that whether it will allow a personal appearance by Professor Babkin, in which he could sort of say what he said in this letter.
Then I would assume that the Professor is still ailing.
I mean, is he able to take the stand, is there any indication that he will be asked to.
No he is not able to take the stand at the moment.
He is recuperating after a heart attack, but Pope's lawyer has said that court session could actually take place in the apartment of Professor Babkin.
We still have to wait and see whether the court will accept that.
So how important is this evidence.
I mean how pivotal a figure is he.
Is he providing evidence of no one else can.
Well.
From what we have heard so far, this is supposed to be like a key witness, a very important witness, but then the first reaction came from the FSB, the Federal Security Bureau, which is the former KGB, they are the ones who are prosecuting Pope.
Their spokesman said today that their evidence is far from being based only on Babkin's testimony.
He said that FSB has evidence given by other witnesses and experts, as well as, written documents and videos.
This is not, what would know as a standards of American style trial certainly, first of all of the proceedings are conducted entirely in secret.
What is the defense attorney for Edmond Pope saying about the conduct in the trial.
Well.
He is very unhappy with the main judge.
Pope is not being tried by Jury.
He has been tried by panel of judges headed by judge Nina Barkova and what we have heard from the defense attorney Pavel Astakhov is that she has rejected almost every single one of over 40 objections and suggestions that he has so far submitted during the case.
He is very unhappy with the way she has been conducting the whole case and also with the fact that she has denied Edmund Pope the proper medical attention that he has asked for.
And what has like that it happened should Edmond Pope get convicted.
Would he actually serve time.
Well.
Most of the people I have spoken here believe that that would not be the case, that since the case is already being brought to court that he is most likely to get convicted, but will then afterwards be pardoned either by the president or the parliament, and then sent back home for reasons of ill health, but most people here do expect a conviction at the end of this trial.
It was Nenad Sebek in Moscow talking to us about the espionage trial in Moscow of American Edmond Pope.
Thank you very much Nenad.
You are welcome Lisa.
This is PRI, Public Radio International.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair arrives in Russia today for talks with Vladimir Putin on security, foreign policy, and economic issues.
They are also expected to discuss a new Russian proposal for deep cuts in US and Russian long-range missiles.
VOA's Larry James in Moscow.
The highlight of the one-day visit will be three hours of talks on Tuesday, during which Mr. Blair and Mr. Putin will focus on a wide range of issues including Russia's latest call for cutting the number of strategic nuclear warheads to below 1500.
President Clinton has said such a deal is possible, but that it will be first necessary to convince Moscow of the merits of America's proposed Missile Defense System.
The US wants to amend the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty so it can develop such a system.
Russia believes such a move could spark a new arms race and has threatened to tear up existing weapons agreements and stop disarmament talks if the United States goes ahead.
On Sunday Mr. Putin called on the Russian parliament to quickly ratify the amended Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty.
That treaty requires Russia to make further non-nuclear weapons reductions in some areas of the country including breakaway Chechnya.
President Putin acknowledged that Russia is still violating its commitment in Chechnya, but he said it is only a temporary situation which has the ultimate aim of cutting armaments in the region.
He also thanked the 29 other signatories to the treaty for their understanding.
He said Russia is fully behind the agreement that, he said, is an efficient instrument of ensuring security in Europe for years to come.
The original treaty was signed in 1990 and led to the destruction of thousands of heavy weapons by NATO and the former Warsaw Pact.
Tony Blair became the first western leader to come to Russia to meet the new President last March even before Mr. Putin was elected.
The Russian leader returned the favor by making London one of his first foreign destinations after taking office.
The two have already met four times this year.
Analysts here in Moscow believe Britain can play a useful role as a bridge to both Europe and the United States.
Trade is also expected to figure significantly in the talks.
Britain ranks as the third largest investor after the United States and Germany with just slightly more than $1 billion invested in Russia.
Larry James, VOA News, Moscow.
Missouri residents remembered Governor Mel Carnahan today.
He died Monday night in a plane crash while campaigning for the Senate.
Thousands attended a ceremony at the Missouri State capital.
President and Mrs. Clinton were among the mourners.
Apparently Carly made a lot of journalistic enemies during her six hears at HP.
Not only was the catalyst for her fall from grace a Fortune article by Carol Loomis (who as far as I know is immortal -- she's been writing for Fortune since 1954), but the anti-Carly brigades are out in full force at Salon.com.
This is getting a little harsh; she might have messed up at HP (I refuse to call it by the new name, for now), but she wasn't actively trying to destroy a great company and wreck the shareholders.
It just, well, happened.
So, right, Carly was a bad manager, and she eventually got what she deserved, but she isn't evil incarnate.
Five of the U.S. sailors killed in the attack on the destroyer "USS Cole" are now home.
A military transport plane brought the flag-draped caskets from Germany where they were taken yesterday.
An honor guard removed them to a hangar at Dover Air Force base for a short memorial service for close family members.
They requested privacy for today's proceedings.
The bodies of two other sailors recovered from the ship are in Bahrain and will be returned later.
A note from a doomed sailor raises new questions about Russian efforts to save the crew of the submarine "Kursk..
The note was found in the pocket of a sailor whose body was recovered yesterday.
It was written after explosions sent the "Kursk" to the bottom of the sea.
It confirms 23 sailors survived.
For days, teams tried without success to open the escape hatch.
It was pried open by divers from Norway who found no one left alive.
Relatives have complained some sailors might have been rescued had Russia sought help immediately.
The widow of the sailor who wrote the note wept today as she was interviewed on Russian television.
I came here after I heard the official announcement on TV.
I love him very much.
I want to see him and I want to read his letter.
While the cause of the "Kursk" disaster remains unknown, Russian officials say the sub may have collided with a World War II mine or there may have been an internal malfunction.
A woman whose husband was killed in last month's crash of a Singapore Airlines plane has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the carrier.
Investigators say the Boeing 747 hit a barrier and a crane on the runway and exploded during takeoff.
82 people were killed.
The lawsuit filed in Federal court says negligence and reckless misconduct contributed to the crash.
A spokesman for Singapore Airlines declined to comment.
Thanks to Captain Ed for bringing this up.
Apparently James Baker, former Secretary of State and current envoy for the Bush Administration, has asked the Isreali government to release a scumbag terrorist to promote "peace".
There is now ... in an Israeli prison a man named Marwan Barghouti, who is one of the young guard of Palestinians, and if the Palestinians are going to make this work against the really hard-line elements, the Islamists and some of the people of Hamas, they're going to have to have a coalition of the young guard and the old guard.
Gotta say that this shocked me, I've always thought Mr. Baker was a upstanding guy but this is just plain good old fashioned bullcrap.
Here are some of the fine achievements of the terrorist Marwan Barghouti Marwan Barghouti (born June 6, 1958) is a Palestinian leader from the West Bank and a leader of the Fatah movement that forms the backbone of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO).
On June 6, 2004, he was sentenced to five life sentences for five murders of Israeli civilians and 40 years imprisonment for attempted murders in terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians.
Barghouti was one of the major leaders of the First Intifada in 1987, leading Palestinians in a mass uprising against Israeli occupation of the West Bank.
During the uprising, he was arrested by Israel and deported to Jordan, where he stayed for seven years until he was permitted to return under the terms of the Oslo Accords in 1994.
In 1996, he was elected to the Palestinian Legislative Council, in which he advocated peace with Israel, sometimes coming in conflict with Yasser Arafat.
The formal position occupied by Barghouti was the General Secretary of Fatah in the West Bank.
By the summer of 2000, Barghouti and Arafat had grown increasingly at odds with each other, with Barghouti accusing Arafat's administration of corruption and his security services of human rights violations, and Arafat was planning to fire him shortly.
However, as the Second Intifada began, Barghouti became increasingly popular as a leader of the Fatah Tanzim militia.
This was perhaps due to the transformation of Tanzim into an organization more resembling militant groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, responsible for dozens of civilian deaths in drive-by shootings.
Under Barghouti, the Tanzim has also carried out suicide bombings in Israel under the name al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades.
What is he thinking?
Release a known terrorist to run the PLO and that will bring about peace, give me a effin break.
</DOC>The following a grim story out of Russia tonight where there's proof some of the sailors on board that Russian nuclear submarine the Kursk initially survived the explosion that sank the sub, only to be trapped later.
One of the sailors wrote a letter during those terrible final hours.
Today, 10 weeks after a mysterious accident sent the Kursk to the bottom of the Barents sea, a grisly discovery.
In the pocket of one of the crew, a handwritten note, dying words of a sailor trapped alive in the sunken sub.
He is this lieutenant captain, seen here three years ago aboard the Kursk.
His last words tell a chilling tail -- tale of a desperate but future ill attempt to escape.
It now appears 23 survived -- survived the initial explosion.
The 23 frantically scrambled to the rear of the sub.
They find the escape hatch flooded and seal themselves in compartment nine.
Realizing he will die, he begins to write.
He addressed the letter to his wife, Olga.
He is my dear, dear beloved.
I want to see him again, read his letter.
The chilling account raises new questions and criticisms of the Russian navy, which waited several days before attempting to launch any rescue missio.
But navy officials here at the Pentagon say any rescue attempt would have failed, that there really was no hope for the 23 survivors.
It's believed they would have frozen to death in hours, long before they ran out of air.
That may be little consolation for the families.
NBC News correspondent Jim Miklaszweski, the pentagon.
Program note here.
Coming up tonight at 10:00 p.m. eastern, a closer look at the Kursk and similar disasters that have taken place at sea.
The U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Eurasia said Tuesday that the U.S. government won't be involved in choosing subcontractors for American companies named to help rebuild Iraq.
``The way it works is that there have been an initial set of contracts let to US companies, since it's U.S. money.
Those companies can subcontract to any company they want,'' Elizabeth Jones said.
She made the statements after a meeting with the speaker of the Portuguese parliament, Joao Mota Amaral.
``The U.S. government has done what it is going to do: it has opened up the process to international companies.
We can't direct commerce,'' Jones said.
``Once it's a commercial proposition, then international bidding processes come into effect.''
Jones met with Defense Minister Paulo Portas on Tuesday and will meet Foreign Minister Antonio Martins da Cruz before leaving Portugal Wednesday.
About 50 Portuguese companies - mostly in the construction sector -- are applying for subcontracts to help rebuild Iraq, Portuguese media reported.
Many are hoping to reap benefits from Portuguese government support of the U.S.-led war to oust Saddam Hussein.
Also, Portugal hosted a last ditch pre-war summit in the Azores islands for leaders of the United States, Britain and Spain.
Thousands of fresh US troops headed for Iraq Thursday as British Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush discussed the effort to oust Saddam Hussein, which some senior US military officials warn could last months.
About 1,000 soldiers from the US Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade parachuted into an airfield in a Kurdish-controlled area of northern Iraq, establishing a base through which to bring in more troops and tanks, Pentagon officials said.
And some 12,000 soldiers from the US Army's 4th Infantry Division, which was supposed to have gone into northern Iraq through Turkey, began flying out of Fort Hood, Texas, Thursday to the region, a military fort spokeswoman told AFP.
The soldiers are to meet up with ships transporting their equipment, which is arriving in Kuwait from the Mediterranean, where it had been idling for weeks on navy ships awaiting Turkey's decision.
The war in Iraq could last months and require considerable US military reinforcements to assure a victory, the Washington Post reported Thursday, quoting senior US military officials.
Sandstorms, dangerously long supply lines and a recalcitrant enemy "has led to abroad reassessment by some top generals of US military expectations and timelines," the Post reports.
"Tell me how this ends," one senior officer asked the Post.
Most US army commanders believe it is critical to pause the breakneck advance towards Baghdad to secure the supply lines and make sure weapons are operable and troops resupplied after days of powerful sandstorms and damage inflicted by Iraqi attacks, the Post reports.
The Post also quoted Central Intelligence Agency and Pentagon intelligence analysts complaining that Bush officials largely ignored their warning that Iraqi irregular forces would use guerrilla tactics and offer significant resistance.
Publicly US officials have insisted that the war is going according to plan, and the most advanced US forces are currently some 100 kilometers (60 miles) outside of Baghdad.
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld dismissed worries that there were insufficient forces in the Gulf region if the battle for Baghdad goes wrong.
After briefing US senators on the war, Rumsfeld told reporters that the number of forces "has been increasing and it will continue to do so until it is finished."
Meanwhile Blair arrived in Washington late Wednesday for two days of talks with Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat.
Talks were to focus on how to run a post-Saddam Iraq, with Washington resisting a large United Nations role.
Blair faces an uphill battle to win Bush over to giving the UN oversight of a post-Saddam administration, as Washington officials are still angry at Germany, Russia, and especially France, over the failure to secure UN Security Council approval for military action.
Blair and Bush were to hold a joint press conference at 1600 GMT Thursday.
Britain has deployed some 45,000 troops to fight with the more than 250,000 US soldiers lined up against Iraqi troops.
Bush gave a new, stronger warning that the war could become drawn out.
"As they approach Baghdad, our fighting units are facing the most desperate elements of a doomed regime," Bush told cheering military personnel Wednesday at the Florida headquarters of Central Command, which is running the campaign.
"We cannot predict the final day of the Iraqi regime, but I can assure you -- and I assure the long-suffering people of Iraq -- there will be a day of reckoning for the Iraqi regime, and that day is drawing near," he said.
At the last minute, Bush withdrew a phrase in his speech saying the campaign was "ahead of schedule."
A senior administration official said the president had decided to be cautious.
Bush pointedly paid tribute to the 48-nation "coalition of the willing" -- particularly Britain -- that is publicly backing the campaign.
Separately, US Secretary of State Colin Powell emphasized US determination to pursue the military campaign despite the diplomatic pressure Washington faces at the United Nations.
"We are interested in concluding this conflict, not having a pause right now or stopping right now, but concluding this as quickly as possible so we can get on with the rebuilding of Iraq and putting in place a better system of governance," Powell said in an interview with the Al-Jazeera Arab television network.
Powell, the most moderate member of the Bush cabinet, said he fully agreed with the president's policy on Iraq and had no plans to leave.
"Personally, I'm very much in sync with the president and he values my services," he said in an interview with National Public Radio.
Meanwhile the Wall Street Journal reported that several British and US oil companies have quietly advised US and British forces on how oil fields operate so they could safeguard the fields in Iraq.
The companies, including Britain's BP PLC and the Texas-based Boots and Coots International Well Control Inc., were not paid for their consultations, but allied military engineers said their advice was critical.
The damaged "USS Cole" comes home today.
It's due to arrive in Pascagoula, Mississippi, this morning.
The destroyer was christened there five years ago.
Repairs are expected to cost about $240 million.
Yemeni and U.S. authorities are still investigating the October bombing.
17 sailors were killed.
Yemen's Prime Minister says at least three Yemenis will go on trial next month in connection with the attack.
They're suspected of belonging to an international terrorist network.
Hardly a day passes without news photos of the police dragging limp protesters from some building or thoroughfare in one of our cities.
Of recent note are the activities of the pro- and anti-abortionists, anti-nuclear activists, animal rights protesters, college students concerned about racism, anti-apartheid groups, various self-styled "environmentalists" and those dissatisfied with the pace of the war against AIDS.
Maybe he didn't start it, but Mohandas Gandhi certainly provided a recognizable beginning to non-violent civil disobedience as we know it today.
The Mahatma, or "great souled one," instigated several campaigns of passive resistance against the British government in India.
Unfortunately, according to Webster's Biographical Dictionary, "His policies went beyond his control and resulted . . . in riots and disturbances" and later a renewed campaign of civil disobedience "resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment..
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did, but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.
It is difficult, however, to justify civil disobedience, non-violent or not, where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change.
Where truly representative governments are safeguarded by constitutional protections of human rights and an independent judiciary to construe those rights, there is no excuse for breaking the law because some individual or group disagrees with it.
There may be a few cases where the law breaking is well pinpointed and so completely non-invasive of the rights of others that it is difficult to criticize it.
The case of Rosa Parks, the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus, comes to mind as an illustration.
But most cases of non-violent civil disobedience are not nearly so benign.
The public has a tendency to equate lawful demonstrations with non-violent civil disobedience.
It is true that both are non-violent, but there is a fundamental difference between them.
Lawful demonstrations, such as peaceful picketing and other assemblages that do not disturb the peace or cause a public nuisance or interfere with the rights of others, are rights guaranteed by any truly free system of government.
Civil disobedience, violent or non-violent, is intentional law breaking.
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience; but, before we get on with that, let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations.
They are useful to call public attention to grievances, but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute.
The delight of television in dramatic confrontation encourages overuse of slogans chanted through bullhorns, militant gestures, accusatory signs and other emotionally inspired tactics.
Civilized discourse and an environment where compromise can begin are lost in a hostile posture abetted by superficial media interviews.
At best, demonstrations are overused and boringly uninformative; at worst, they can become the stimuli that lead to law breaking.
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct when they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile.
Petty criminals and street people looking for excitement attach themselves like remora to the fringes of the crowd and use the protest as an excuse for rock throwing, auto trashing, arson, window breaking, looting, pocket picking and general hooliganism.
Soon the whole purpose of the demonstration is lost in mob mania.
There are better ways to promote a cause.
Where non-violent civil disobedience is the centerpiece, rather than a lawful demonstration that may only attract crime, it is difficult to justify.
Some find no harm in the misdemeanors of trespass, minor property destruction, blocking traffic and the like.
They say these are small prices to pay for galvanizing action for the all-important cause.
The crimes may appear small, but the prices can be huge.
Here are two cases to illustrate.
Assume a neighborhood demonstration to protest speeding on a certain road or a careless accident involving a police car.
The protesters lie down in the street, blocking traffic, and will not move until the authorities carry them away.
Assume that someone caught in the jam has a heart attack.
There is no way to get an ambulance in quickly to move him to a hospital.
He dies.
The demonstration was non-violent and involved only a simple misdemeanor, but its impact on that individual was violent and terminal.
Assume that a TV network is airing a celebrity interview program with a live audience.
The politician appearing is highly controversial and has recently generated a good deal of rancor amid certain groups.
In a planned protest against his appearance, several members of the studio audience chain themselves in front of the TV cameras in such a way that the program cannot continue.
The network must refund money to the advertisers and loses considerable revenue and prestige.
The demonstrators have been non-violent, but the result of their trespasses has been to seriously impair the rights of others unconnected with their dispute.
It might be alleged that TV has done more than its share to popularize and promote non-violent civil disobedience, so the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of "chickens coming home to roost..
Or maybe the TV network would lose nothing.
Geraldo or Phil would probably pull up another camera and interview the chained protesters.
Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly, yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole.
I am referring to those young men who chose to disobey their country's call to arms during the Vietnam war and fled to Canada or some other sanctuary to avoid combat.
Their cowardly acts of civil disobedience, which they tried to hide under the cloak of outrage at a war they characterized as "immoral," weakened the national fabric and threw additional burdens on those who served honorably in that conflict.
Even more at fault are those leaders in and out of government who urged and supported their defections, thereby giving great help and comfort to the enemy propagandists.
It is amazing that the ensuing mass executions in Vietnam and Cambodia do not weight more heavily on minds so morally fine-tuned.
Worse, it remained to a well-meaning but naive president of the United States to administer the final infamy upon those who fought and died in Vietnam.
Under the guise of "healing the wounds of the nation," President Carter pardoned thousands of draft evaders, thus giving dignity to their allegations of the war's "immorality..
The precedent having been set, who can complain if future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding until it is over.
Finally, I think it important to point out the extraordinarily high visibility of non-violent civil disobedience in these days of intensive media coverage.
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law, and no second invitation will be required.
This brings into question the motives of those who lead civil disobedience demonstrations.
Do they want the spotlight for themselves or for their cause.
Here is a good rule of thumb: If the movement produced the leader, the chance that he is sincere is much greater than if the leader produced the movement.
In either case, ask yourself whether you have become better informed on the issues under protest by watching the act of civil disobedience.
If you have not, it is probable that a thorough airing of the dispute by calm and rational debate would have been the better course.
Mr. Agnew was vice president of the U.S. from 1969 until he resigned in 1973.
From the Associated Press : A baby girl who had been cut out of her mother's womb was found after a frantic search, and authorities arrested the woman they say strangled the mother and stole the child.
The baby was in good condition Saturday.
Lisa M. Montgomery, 36, of Melvern, Kan., was arrested later Friday and charged with kidnapping resulting in death.
Bobbie Jo Stinnett, 23, was found Thursday in a pool of blood inside her small white home in Skidmore, a town in northwest Missouri.
Stinnett, who was eight months pregnant, had earlier been talking with her mother on the phone, and hung up saying a woman she had chatted with online had just arrived at her door, authorities said.
U.S. Attorney Todd Graves said Montgomery contacted Stinnett through an online message board, and authorities zeroed in on her using computer forensics.
Montgomery was seeking to buy a dog from Stinnett, who raised rat terriers, he said.
According to the criminal complaint, Montgomery traveled about 40 miles to Topeka, Kan., on Thursday to go shopping.
Her husband received a call from her saying she had gone into labor and given birth.
The next day, authorities say, Montgomery confessed that she strangled Stinnett from behind, cut her open, removed the baby and cut her umbilical cord.
I don't understand how we can call this fetus-thing that was ripped from a mother's womb a "child" or "girl" in a society that sanctions partial-birth abortion.
If you can't charge someone for killing a fetus via abortion during the eighth month, then surely you can't make a big deal about a woman who kidnapped a fetus that survived the knifing.
On a less-sarcastic note, I pray for the family of the 23-year-old woman.
No one should have to die because some crazy nut wanted a child and decided to kill for it.
If there's any good news in this story, it's that Victoria Jo will live on and carry her mother's memory.
Question for the pro-choicers: Being that it isn't yet the ninth month, can we still charge the killer with kidnapping?
The United States and Britain are preparing a resolution that would give the United Nations a role in humanitarian relief but not peacekeeping in Iraq, a senior official in U.S. President George W. Bush's administration said Friday.
Separately, the United States has decided to divide the military and humanitarian relief mission in Iraq into three parts under American, British and Polish command, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Six European countries have agreed to contribute troops to the British and Polish sectors to create an international stability force, the official said.
The draft resolution would limit the U.N. role to helping with refugees and displaced people, reconstruction and humanitarian assistance, the official said.
The United States and Britain agree on all but a few of the fine details of the resolution, the official said, though there is no timetable on when it would be introduced.
U.N. officials are already in Iraq providing humanitarian relief.
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said this week that the body has no interest in policing a postwar Iraq, although it could contribute to the political resuscitation of the country.
``Take the question of security.
I don't think the U.N. would want to take on that,'' Annan said.
``There has been a suggestion that the U.N. wanted to take over the whole Iraq and run it, which was also not the case.''
What the United Nations could contribute beyond humanitarian assistance was ``political facilitation,'' Annan said.
The proposed draft resolution would probably face resistance from other U.N. Security Council members who have favored a U.N.-convened conference of the kind that helped establish Afghanistan's post-Taliban government.
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld discussed the resolution with Prime Minister Tony Blair and Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon on Friday as Rumsfeld returned from a tour of Iraq, Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf region.
Rumsfeld said afterward he hoped the U.N. would play a role but did not publicly discuss the draft resolution outlining that role.
Hoon, who joined Rumsfeld in a news conference at Heathrow airport, also did not mention the draft resolution.
``We are right to be optimistic about the way forward'' in Iraq, Hoon said.
International stability forces will be sent to Iraq as soon as possible, the U.S. official said, though it was unclear when that would be.
Those troops will work to restore and maintain order and supervise humanitarian projects such as the restoration of water and electricity and delivery of food and medical aid.
The six nations contributing troops are Italy, Spain, Ukraine, Denmark, the Netherlands and Bulgaria, the official said.
Representatives of those countries will meet with British officials May 7 and Polish officials May 22 to determine what forces each country will contribute and whether they will be put under British or Polish command.
The U.S. part of the stability force will be comprised of American troops.
While that portion is likely to consist of a military division -- about 20,000 -- the troop strength of the other two sectors has yet to be determined, the official said.
The international stabilization force would be under the U.S. war commander, Gen. Tommy Franks.
At least initially, the coalition stability forces will augment rather than replace the 135,000 American troops inside Iraq, the official said.
The stability forces will focus on providing security and humanitarian relief while other U.S. troops focus on rooting out leftover members of Saddam Hussein's government and other armed elements in Iraq.
Rumsfeld said, however, that the more troops other countries contribute to the stability effort, the fewer U.S. troops will be needed inside Iraq.
Planning for both the U.N. resolution and the international security force left out France, Germany and Russia, three U.S. allies that vehemently opposed the war in Iraq.
Some of the NATO members who agreed to send troops may want NATO authorization for that action, the official said.
Requests for such authorization will be routed through the alliance's defense planning committee, which does not include France, the official said.
The outlines for the international stability force were decided at a conference Hoon hosted Wednesday with representatives from 16 countries, mostly NATO members.
Other countries including the Philippines, South Korea, Qatar and Australia agreed to send other help such as field hospitals, engineers, explosive ordnance disposal teams or nuclear, biological and chemical weapons experts.
The U.S., British and Polish sectors will be drawn to take into account ethnic, religious, tribal and political factions within Iraq, the official said.
For example, although ethnic Kurds are the majority in large parts of northern Iraq, there are also large numbers of Kurds within Baghdad.
Some Arab countries also want to play a role in the stability operation in Iraq but are reluctant to send troops because of political, religious and ethnic considerations, the official said.
Countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council have offered to donate money for the effort.
Rumsfeld also met Friday with King Abdullah of Jordan, an American ally in the Middle East.
Defense officials say Jordan provided key help in the Iraq war, acting as a staging area for U.S. special operations raids into western Iraq to prevent missiles from being fired at Jordan or Israel.
Rumsfeld did not say what the two discussed.
Ousted Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is heading to exile in Saudi Arabia.
He left Pakistan yesterday, after being pardoned by the president.
Sharif had been in jail since his ouster in a military coup last year.
He was convicted of kidnapping and corruption.
Saudi Arabia offered to accept Sharif and more than a dozen members of his family on humanitarian grounds.
US President George W. Bush told Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien by telephone Monday that he looked forward to seeing him at the upcoming summit of major industrialized nations and Russia, the White House said Tuesday.
"The two leaders discussed the upcoming G-8 meeting, US-Canada (relations) and other international issues of concern," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said days before the June 1-3 summit, to be held in France.
"Both said they look forward to seeing each other in Evian.
They also touched on Afghanistan, the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and on the global economy," said Fleischer.
Amid a chill in relations over the war in Iraq, which Canada opposed, Bush indefinitely postponed a visit to Canada, instead choosing to host Australian Prime Minster John Howard, who endorsed that military campaign.
On Monday, Chretien told reporters that he and Bush, who had not spoken since late February, discussed a wide range of issues, including Iraq, the upcoming summit of the Group of Eight industrial powers and aid to Africa.
"We've always been on good terms.
We just disagree on one item," the Canadian leader said.
When Maj. Moises Giroldi, the leader of the abortive coup in Panama, was buried, his body bore several gunshot wounds, a cracked skull and broken legs and ribs.
They were the signature of his adversary, Panamanian leader Manuel Antonio Noriega.
The rebel officer's slow and painful death, at the headquarters of Panama's Battalion-2000 squad, was personally supervised by Gen. Noriega, says a U.S. official with access to intelligence reports.
Leaping into rages, sinking into bouts of drunkenness and mistrust, Mr. Noriega has put to death some 70 of his troops involved in the coup, according to U.S. officials monitoring crematoriums and funeral parlors in Panama City.
He is now changing the place he sleeps every night, sometimes more than once a night.
His meals are most often prepared by women he trusts -- his full-time mistress, Vicky Amado, and her mother, Norma.
And he is collecting the names of those who telephoned the coup-makers to congratulate them during their brief time in control of his headquarters.
More enemies to be dealt with.
In the two weeks since the rebellion, which the U.S. hesitantly backed, Mr. Noriega has been at his most brutal-and efficient-in maintaining power.
Yet, while the failed coup is a major U.S. foreign policy embarrassment, it is merely the latest chapter in a byzantine relationship between Mr. Noriega and Washington that stretches back three decades.
America's war on the dictator over the past two years, following his indictment on drug charges in February 1988, is the legacy of that relationship.
Before American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega, it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama's long history of conspirators and pirates.
For most of the past 30 years, the marriage was one of convenience.
In 1960, for example, when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute, according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period.
The woman had nearly died.
But U.S. intelligence, rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy, merely filed the report away.
Mr. Noriega's tips on emerging leftists at his school were deemed more important to U.S. interests.
From that point on, the U.S. would make a practice of overlooking the Panamanian's misadventures.
The U.S. has befriended and later turned against many dictators, but none quite so resourceful.
The 55-year-old Mr. Noriega isn't as smooth as the shah of Iran, as well-born as Nicaragua's Anastasio Somoza, as imperial as Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or as bloody as Haiti's Baby Doc Duvalier.
Yet he has proved more resilient than any of them.
And out of necessity: the U.S. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power, but a single error on his part could cost him his life.
"The U.S. underestimated Noriega all along," says Ambler Moss, a former Ambassador to Panama.
"He has mastered the art of survival..
In keeping with America's long history of propping up Mr. Noriega, recent U.S. actions have extended rather than shortened his survival.
Mr. Noriega might have fallen of his own weight in 1988 because of Panama's dire economic situation, says Mr. Moss, but increasing external pressure has only given him additional excuses for repression, and a scapegoat for his own mismanagement.
"If the U.S. had sat back and done nothing, he might not have made it through 1988," Mr. Moss contends.
Perhaps most important, Mr. Noriega's allies have intervened to encourage -- in some cases, to demand -- that the dictator maintain his grip of the throne.
One Colombian drug boss, upon hearing in 1987 that Gen. Noriega was negotiating with the U.S. to abandon his command for a comfortable exile, sent him a hand-sized mahogany coffin engraved with his name.
"He is cornered," says the Rev. Fernando Guardia, who has led Catholic Church opposition against Noriega.
"The Americans have left him without a way out.
It is easy to fight when you don't have any other option..
His chief advantage in the fight: his intimate knowledge of American ways and weaknesses.
Mr. Noriega often tells friends that patience is the best weapon against the gringos, who have a short attention span and little stomach for lasting confrontation.
The U.S. discovered the young Tony Noriega in late 1959, when he was in his second year at the Chorrillos Military Academy in Lima, according to former U.S. intelligence officials.
The contact occurred through Mr. Noriega's half-brother, a Panamanian diplomat based in Peru named Luis Carlos Noriega Hurtado.
Luis Carlos, knowing that helping the Americans could advance the career of any Panamanian officer, relayed Tony's reports on the leftist tendencies he observed among his fellow students and, more important, among his officers and instructors.
A spy was born.
It was a heady experience for the pockmarked and slightly built Mr. Noriega, who was known to his friends as Cara la Pina -- pineapple face.
Born the illegitimate son of his father's maid, he was raised on the mean streets of the central market district of Panama City.
Tony was four years older than most of his fellow cadets, and gained admission to the academy because his brother had falsified his birth certificate.
He considered himself intellectually superior to his Peruvian peers, many of whom were wayward sons sent by their well-off families to the highly disciplined, French-modeled academy as a sort of reform school.
In his peaked military cap and neatly pressed, French-made uniform, Noriega felt more respected and powerful than ever in his underprivileged life, friends from the period say.
"He had an elegant uniform with gold buttons in a country where there was a cult of militarism, where officers were the elite with special privileges," recalls Darien Ayala, a fellow student in Peru and a lifelong friend.
Mr. Noriega's relationship to American intelligence agencies became contractual in either 1966 or 1967, intelligence officials say.
His commanding officer at the Chiriqui Province garrison, Major Omar Torrijos, gave him an intriguing assignment: Mr. Noriega would organize the province's first intelligence service.
The spy network would serve two clients: the Panamanian government, by monitoring political opponents in the region, and the U.S., by tracking the growing Communist influence in the unions organized at United Fruit Co.'s banana plantations in Bocas del Toros and Puerto Armuelles.
United Fruit was one of the two largest contributors to Panama's national income.
Satisfying its interests was a priority for any Panamanian leader.
Mr. Noriega's initial retainer was only $50 to $100 a month, plus occasional gifts of liquor or groceries from the American PX, a former intelligence official says.
It was modest pay by American standards, but a healthy boost to his small military salary, which fellow officers remember as having been $300 to $400 monthly.
"He did it very well," recalls Boris Martinez, a former Panamanian colonel who managed Mr. Noriega and his operation.
"He started building the files that helped him gain power..
A National Guard job assumed by Capt. Noriega in 1964 -- as chief of the transit police in David City, capital of the Chiriqui Province -- was tailor-made for an aspiring super-spy.
By pressuring taxi and bus drivers who needed licenses, he gained a ready cache of information.
He knew which local luminaries had been caught driving drunk, which had been found with their mistresses.
This proved particularly valuable to the Panamanian government in 1967, when union leaders were planning a May Day march that the government feared could turn violent.
Mr. Noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy.
So he splashed the information on handbills that he distributed throughout the banana-exporting city of Puerto Armuelles, which was ruled by United Fruit Co.
The campaign so divided union leaders that the government found them far easier to control.
"It was like a play on Broadway," recalls Mr. Martinez.
"Noriega managed the whole thing.
He was superb.
Noriega was an expert at bribing and blackmailing people..
During his years in Chiriqui, however, Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious.
Rodrigo Miranda, a local lawyer and human-rights monitor, recalls an intoxicated Noriega visiting prisoners in their cells at the 5th Zone Garrison headquarters in David, where he had his offices.
Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked, laughing at them and then retreating to his office.
"People started wondering if something was wrong with him," Mr. Miranda recalls.
But through this period, so far as the U.S. military was concerned, Mr. Noriega was a model recruit.
He signed up for intelligence and counter-intelligence training under American officers at Fort Gulick in Panama in July 1967, according to a copy of a 1983 resume with details Mr. Noriega has since classified as secret.
He flew to Fort Bragg, N.C., in September of that year for a course in psychological operations, returning to the School of the Americas in Panama for a two-month course called "military intelligence for officers..
Some American officers interpreted his eagerness and studiousness as a sign of loyalty, but they did so falsely.
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama's so-called G-2 in 1970 after providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier.
He became Gen. Torrijos's inseparable shadow, and the holder of all Panama's secrets.
Mr. Noriega, by now a lieutenant colonel, expanded his contacts to include the Cubans -- not to mention the Israelis, the Taiwanese and any other intelligence service that came knocking.
When U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega's moonlighting, intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans.
"Early on in the State Department, we took to calling him the rent-a-colonel, in tribute to his ability to simultaneously milk the antagonistic intelligence services of Cuba and the United States," recalls Francis J. McNeil, who, as deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, first ran across reports about Mr. Noriega in 1977.
"Some of us wondered how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information when he was just as close to the Cubans..
Even at this early stage, drugs caused additional concerns.
During the Nixon administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration became dismayed at the extent of the G-2's connections to arrested drug traffickers.
One DEA agent drew up a list of five options for dealing with Col. Noriega, one of which was assassination.
The head of the DEA at the time, John Ingersoll, scotched the assassination plan.
But he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials, including Mr. Noriega.
Mr. Ingersoll later recalled that Gen. Torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the U.S.
"Everybody was afraid of him," Mr. Ingersoll says.
Mr. Noriega became an even greater threat in 1976, when U.S. intelligence services discovered that he had been buying recordings of electronically monitored conversations from three sergeants working for the U.S. Army's 470th Military Intelligence Group.
The tapes included wiretaps of Gen. Torrijos's own phone, according to American intelligence officials.
"We caught him with his hands on our cookie jar," says former CIA Director Stansfield Turner.
For the first time, the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll -- and the deliberations were intense, Mr. Turner says.
"In the world of intelligence, if you want to get information, you get it from seedy characters.
The question is how much you get tied in with seedy characters so they can extort you..
Intelligence officials to this day worry whether Mr. Noriega sold sensitive information on the recordings to the Cubans or others.
Mr. Turner was troubled enough to cancel the U.S. contract with the rent-a-colonel at the beginning of the Carter administration.
The U.S. soon found new cause for concern: gun-running.
Prosecutors in Southern Florida indicted five Panamanians on charges of illegally running arms to Sandinista rebels trying to overthrow the Nicaraguan government of Mr. Somoza.
They included one of Mr. Noriega's closest friends and business partners, Carlos Wittgreen.
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself.
At the time, though, in 1979, the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy.
Mr. Noriega made plans to fly to Washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the Pentagon.
Dade County and federal authorities, learning that he intended to fly through Miami, made plans to arrest him on the gun-running charges as soon as he hit U.S. soil.
It was a Friday in June.
The Pentagon foiled the plan.
According to military officers at the time, word was passed to Mr. Noriega by his American hosts that the police would be waiting.
On Monday, U.S. officials received a routine, unclassified message from the military group commander in Panama.
"Due to health reasons, Lt. Col. Noriega has elected to postpone his visit to Washington," it read.
Prosecutors in Miami received yet another setback.
Their original indictment against Mr. Wittgreen, the friend of Mr. Noriega, and the other four was dismissed on a technicality.
But now, along with re-indicting Mr. Noriega's pal, they intended to charge Mr. Noriega himself, on allegations that he was involved in the illegal trading of some $2 million in arms.
In January 1980, Jerome Sanford, as assistant U.S. attorney, was summoned to a meeting with a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent assigned to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Miami.
Panamanian dictator Torrijos, he was told, had granted the shah of Iran asylum in Panama as a favor to Washington.
Mr. Sanford was told Mr. Noriega's friend, Mr. Wittgreen, would be handling the shah's security.
It wouldn't be a good idea to indict him -- much less Mr. Noriega, the prosecutor was told.
After prodding from Mr. Sanford, U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed.
"Unfortunately," Mr. Eskenazi wrote in a letter, "those of us in law enforcement in Miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the United States but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control..
The letter, along with a detailed prosecution memo, sat on the desks of Justice officials for months before the case died a quiet death.
"I think if we had been allowed to go ahead then we wouldn't have the problems we have now," Mr. Sanford says.
"If he had been found guilty, we could have stopped him..
In August 1983, Mr. Noriega took over as General and de-facto dictator of Panama, having maneuvered his way to the top only two years after the mysterious death in a plane crash of his old boss Omar Torrijos.
Soon, the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses.
The Reagan administration also put Mr. Noriega's G-2 back on the U.S. payroll.
Payments averaged nearly $200,000 a year from the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency and the CIA.
Although working for U.S. intelligence, Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively.
During the Reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the Cubans and the Sandinistas.
He allegedly entered into Panama's first formal business arrangement with Colombian drug bosses, according to Floyd Carlton, a pilot who once worked for Mr. Noriega and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges.
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House wouldn't act against him, recalls his close ally Jose Blandon, because he had an insurance policy: his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua.
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama.
Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua.
And on at least one occasion, in the spring of 1985, he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua.
Although his help for the Contra cause was limited, it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration, says Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who then served on the Senate Intelligence Committee.
"Noriega played U.S. intelligence agencies and the U.S. government like a violin," he says.
An incident in 1984 suggested one additional means by which Mr. Noriega might have maintained such influence with Washington -- by compromising U.S. officials.
Curtin Windsor, then the ambassador to Costa Rica, recalls being invited to Panama by Mr. Noriega's brother Luis Carlos for a weekend of deep sea fishing and "quiet, serious conversation" on the Aswara Peninsula.
Mr. Windsor notified Everett E. Briggs, the U.S. ambassador to Panama, of the invitation.
"Briggs screamed," Mr. Windsor recalls.
He says Mr. Briggs told him he was being set up for a "honey trap," in which Mr. Noriega would try to involve him in an orgy and then record the event "with sound and video..
Mr. Briggs, on vacation after resigning his position at the National Security Council, couldn't be reached for comment.
As Mr. Noriega's political troubles grew, so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.
For instance, he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party.
But just one month later, he also contributed $100,000 to a Contra leader, according to documents released for Oliver North's criminal trial in Washington, D.C.
Yet, his political setbacks mounted.
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora, his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges.
He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta, a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S., after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder.
And, all the while, Panama's debt problems continued to grow.
Mr. Noriega was growing desperate.
In late 1986, he made an offer he thought the U.S. couldn't refuse.
As recounted in a stipulation that summarized government documents released for the North trial, Mr. Noriega offered to assassinate the Sandinista leadership in exchange "for a promise to help clean up Noriega's image and a commitment to lift the {U.S.} ban on military sales to the Panamanian Defense Forces..
"North," the document went on, referring to Oliver North, "has told Noriega's representative that U.S. law forbade such actions.
The representative responded that Noriega had numerous assets in place in Nicaragua and could accomplish many essential things, just as Noriega had helped {the U.S.} the previous year in blowing up a Sandinista arsenal..
Col. North conveyed the request to his superiors and to Assistant Secretary of State Elliot Abrams, who relayed it to Secretary of State George Shultz.
Mr. Noriega's proposal was turned down.
And Mr. Shultz curtly told Mr. Abrams that the general should be told that only he could repair his tarnished image.
The end of the marriage was at hand.
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega's insurance policy.
The death of CIA Director William Casey and resignation of Oliver North allowed anti-Noriega political forces to gain influence.
Public protests against him were triggered in June 1987 due to charges by Diaz Herrera, his former chief of staff, that Mr. Noriega had stolen the 1984 election and had ordered the killing of Messrs. Spadafora and Torrijos.
Few American officials were willing any longer to defend him.
Lawyers in Miami -- this time working virtually without impediment -- prepared to have him indicted on drug charges in February 1988.
During negotiations with American officials in May 1988 over proposals to drop the U.S. indictments in exchange for his resignation, Mr. Noriega often asked almost plaintively how the Americans, whom he had helped for so many years, could turn against him.
Now, neither side -- the U.S. nor Mr. Noriega -- has an easy out.
President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice.
Mr. Noriega believes he hasn't any alternative but to continue clutching to power.
It is a knock-out battle -- perhaps to the death.
In the end, is Mr. Noriega the political equivalent of Frankenstein's monster, created by a well-intentioned but misguided foreign power.
Not quite, Sen. Leahy contends.
"For short-term gains, people were willing to put up with him.
That allowed him to get stronger and stronger," he says.
"I don't think we created him as much as we fed him, nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong..
Will winter storms affect the weather where you are.
Let's check the "Headline News" extended forecast.
Another round of winter weather is expected today as another major winter storm will be spreading from the southern plains through the Ohio River valley and eventually into the Northeast.
Cities like Springfield, Missouri, back towards St. Louis and Indianapolis and Columbus will pick up the heaviest snowfall.
Over six inches is expected by tomorrow morning, and then moving in towards the northeast, where we expect even some ice in some of the suburbs to the northwestern areas of New York City.
Here's a look at the forecast weather map -- slow pressure is moving in towards the Ohio River valley and eventually into the northeast by late tomorrow.
It's moving rather quickly, too, so the precipitation will be ending through the Midwest as high pressure builds in tomorrow.
Look for the snow to continue into New England tomorrow.
Friday, rain into the southeast.
There will be some showers in the Northwest.
Temperature-wise, it remains cold over the northern tier.
It begins to warm up over parts of the south.
A wet day on Saturday over much of the East and Southeast.
There'll be some snows, though, back into the Midwest.
Forecast highs are still on the cold side.
And as we check out Sunday's weather, snow through the great lakes and rain into the Northeast with forecast highs mainly in the over the northeastern U.S.
I'm meteorologist Dave Hennen.
For more weather information, login to cnn.com.
The interim government declared a state of emergency in Iraq excluding the Kurdish region for 60 days, according to the National Security Law introduced last August which states that emergency laws can be declared in the country for a period no more than 60 days provided a serious threat against Iraqi national security is recognised by the interim government.
Obviously, this is a necessary step that should have been taken at least two months ago.
Suicide bombings and guerrilla attacks carried out by insurgents and foreign terrorists based around Baghdad have escalated to alarming levels particularly during Ramadan.
Deputy governor of Diyala along with several council members from Ba'quba were ambushed and killed in Latifiya south of Baghdad, an area which has supposedly been 'cleared' from insurgents a couple of weeks ago.
Four suicide attacks in Samarra, also a recently 'liberated' area, against National Guard units and the governorate building.
Zarqawi's group claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Three police stations in Haditha, a small town west of Ramadi, were assaulted by groups of insurgents.
Some 30 policemen were captured, tied up and executed in cold blood against the walls following a confrontation which lasted two hours.
Zarqawi's group, again, claiming responsibility.
A full-scale military operation against Fallujah, which is apparently underway already, seems to be the government's 'final solution'.
I'm not optimistic to the outcome, especially when significant civilian casualties are unavoidable.
Note, that I'm not suggesting a peaceful or political solution would work either in these areas.
Insurgents west of Baghdad have quite obstinately made it clear that nothing but full control of the country, or at least the Anbar governorate, will satisfy them.
They have refused to participate in the political process, they have repeatedly announced their intentions to boycott the elections and to disrupt them in other areas, and they do not recognise the government or any other authority in the country beside themselves.
The demands of the Fallujah negotiants from the government weeks ago were obscene and they clearly reflect the overt sectarianism and regionalism of the armed groups in the area.
The demands were not released to the Iraqi public at the time for unkown reasons but they have leaked out days ago.
Here are just a few of them:
-A clear timetable for the withdrawal of foreign occupation forces.
(fair enough).
-Immediate withdrawal of US and Iraqi security forces from the Anbar governorate and the handover of security responsibilities to former army officers from Anbar.
-The appointment of ministers from the Anbar governorate to the ministries of Interior, Defense, Oil and Finance.
-The removal of certain officials (most of them from Shi'ite Islamic parties such as Ibrahim Al-Ja'fari) from governmental positions.
-The complete return of Ba'athists, army officers, Republican Guards, Mukhabarat, intelligence and security personnel to their former positions.
-The removal of Shi'ite Edhan (call for prayers) from official television and radio programs.
-Incomes of Shi'ite sacred shrines should be returned under the control of the Ministry of Endowments and Religious Affairs.
These last two demands have been allegedly added by Sheikh Harith Al-Dhari (head of the Association of Muslim Scholars) and are said to have been a major reason behind the failure of negotiations with the government.
Iraqis here in the south were shocked to hear of these demands and sectarian tensions are on the rise.
It scares me to see the reaction of people around me whenever Fallujah is mentioned.
The director of a primary health care clinic was remarking the other day that "Fallujah should be burnt upon its residents and then razed to the ground.
They are the sons of Mu'awiya, may Allah curse them all."
Sidenote: Mu'awiya bin Abi Sufyan was the governor of Syria during the 7th century and he fought Imam Ali bin Abi Talib (Muhammed's son-in-law) over the Caliphate after the assassination of Caliph Othman.
He became the first Ummayid Caliph and two decades later, under the Caliphate of his son Yazid, Imam Hussein bin Ali (grandson of Muhammed) was killed by his armies at present day Karbala.
Someone hushed the director and pointed out to him that I'm Sunni.
He was a bit embarrassed and tried to explain that he was referring to Wahhabis and foreign fighters.
It was a bit uncomfortable and I could feel that people were giving me furtive glances.
Refugees have been pouring out of Fallujah over the last few days into Baghdad and the surrounding areas.
The military operation will undoubtly aggravate the humanitarian situation inside the city since there are definitely thousands of families with no place to go.
Refugees in Baghdad have confirmed the rumours that the 'Mujahideen' are forcing men from 15-50 years old to stay and that they were threatened with execution if they refuse to carry arms in defense of the town.
Majlis Shura Al-Mujahideen (The Mujahideen Advisory Council) are in control of Fallujah and they have distributed a statement inviting Arab and foreign (including American) media reporters to enter the town and cover the battles.
The statement carried the insignia of Zarqawi's group Qa'idat Al-Jihad.
Everyone is closely watching what the next few days will bring, hoping the violence doesn't spread to the streets of Baghdad or other areas.
I'm still holed up in Basrah but I'll try to be on the road as soon as possible.
A provincial chief from India’s main opposition congress party has told an election rally that India is suffering nature’s "curse" because both the president and prime minister and bachelors, a report said Saturday.
The Times of India newspaper quoted Digvijay Singh, chief minister of the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, as saying that Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and President Abdul Kalam had off ended the Hindu rain God Varuna by remaining bachelors..
"The country is being ruled by a bachelor president and an unmarried prime minister..
This according to the Hindu shastras (books) is very inauspicious and that is the reason there is a widespread heat wave and drought, "said Singh.  .
"Not just Prime Minister Vajpayee but president Kalam’s bachelor status is making the country dry, arid and infertile," he added..
The general secretary of Vajpayee’s ruling Bharatiya Janata party, pramod Mahajan, retorted that Singh’s statement was "beneath contempt."     .
India’s has been reeling under a heat wave since mid-may which has killed 1,403 people..
The country’s western desert state of Rajasthan is also bracing for its fifth straight year of drought.
Libyan leader Colonel Gadaffi can be prosecuted in France over the bombing of a French airliner in which a 170 people were killed.
That's the ruling of a court in Paris.
It rejected an appeal that as a serving head of state Gadaffi should be immune from prosecution.
The lawyer representing the victims' families Francoise Rudetski is hailing the decision as a victory.
The victory today is that any people who committed an act of terrorism should know that he can be pursued and could be arrested and there is no immunity for anyone, any leaders in the world.
Relatives of those killed after an explosion on board the plane over Niger in 1989, brought the case against the Libyan leader.
Six Libyans including Colonel Gadaffi's brother-in-law have already been tried in their absence.
It is a peaceful time in this part of western India.
The summer crop is harvested, winter sowing has yet to begin.
Farmers in loose turbans and fancy earrings spend their afternoons laughing and gossiping at the markets.
One could imagine such a lull in the lives of the Arabs before the quadrupling of oil prices.
For just as the Arabs were in the 1960s, the farmers of Sidhpur are on the brink of global power and fame.
The Arabs had merely oil.
These farmers may have a grip on the world's very heart.
Or, at least, its heart disease.
That is because Sidhpur has a near-monopoly on the world's supply of flea seed, also known as flea wort or, in Western parlance, psyllium: a tiny, tasteless, obscure seed that, according to early research, may reduce cholesterol levels in the blood.
Ever since the link to cholesterol was disclosed, Americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals.
If further research proves the seed's benefits, this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad to rival all fads since cod-liver oil.
"This seed's not grown anywhere else in India, or anywhere else in the world," says T.V. Krishnamurthy, a vice president of Procter & Gamble India Ltd., a major psyllium buyer and promoter.
"The proper climatic conditions don't exist in many places in the world..
Arvind Patel, a processor and exporter of the seed, raves: "If psyllium takes the place of oat bran, it will be huge..
Whether psyllium makes Sidhpur's fortune depends on cholesterol-fearing Americans, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and, of course, the outcome of further research.
Only one thing is certain here: Pysllium is likely to remain solely an export item from Sidhpur for a long time.
Local farmers say it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek, a legume.
But they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning, and, perhaps, little need: lean, frugal vegetarians, the farmers are innocents in the clogged, treacherous world of cholesterol.
Psyllium is an annual herb, Plantago ovata, that has been used for centuries by folk doctors here, mainly as a laxative and anti-diarrheal.
As such, the soluble fiber has an almost fanatic following in northern India.
"I can assure you," attests a 25-year-old lawyer in New Delhi, with a meaningfully raised eyebrow, "from personal experience, it works..
A prominent businessman in Bombay gives a similar testimonial: "I have been taking it daily since 1961..
Folk doctors also prescribe it for kidney, bladder and urethra problems, duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids.
Some apply it to gouty joints.
The plant has a hairy stem that produces flowers and diminutive seeds.
It is the seed's colorlessness and size -- 1,000 of them weigh only 1.5 grams, or about as much as two paper clips -- that explain the historical allusions to fleas.
The translucent husk of the seed is removed, sifted and crushed; the seed itself is fed to animals.
Some 90% of the crop, which was worth $26 million last year, is exported.
For decades, psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co.'s Metamucil, the top-selling brand in the U.S., and Ciba-Geigy Corp.'s Fiberall.
But some time ago, researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
Cincinnati-based P&G took an interest; it ordered two studies on psyllium and cholesterol.
One of the studies, done at the University of Minnesota, tested 75 people with raised cholesterol levels.
After 16 weeks, the group that took three daily teaspoons of Metamucil saw a significant dip in their general cholesterol levels, and an even larger reduction in levels of low-density lipoproteins, the so-called bad cholesterol.
In late 1987, P&G asked the FDA for approval to market Metamucil as the first non-prescription, cholesterol-lowering product in the U.S.
In April, the psyllium bandwagon got more crowded.
General Mills Inc., the food giant, launched a breakfast cereal called Benefit, containing psyllium, oat, wheat and beet bran; the words, "reduce cholesterol" were prominently displayed on its package.
In September, Kellogg Co. launched a competing psyllium-fortified cereal called Heartwise.
Suddenly, on television, in advertisements and on their cereal boxes, Americans were inundated with news about the obscure seed.
The flood of claims and counter-claims worried consumers and actually hurt sales of the new cereals.
This month, the Food and Drug Administration expressed concern that Americans might someday, in various forms, ingest too much psyllium.
Currently, there is a lull in the psyllium war.
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe.
It also ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol.
But the agency hasn't yanked psyllium off store shelves.
If the FDA approves the new uses of psyllium, other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products.
"It's going to be a sensational thing," says Mr. Krishnamurthy of P&G in Bombay.
Says psyllium exporter Mr. Patel: "I just got back yesterday from the U.S.
In the newspapers, on the radio and TV, psyllium is everywhere..
But the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers.
They only know of one use for the crop, as a laxative, and with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop, they think of the seed as a marginal crop, something to grow between summer wheat crops.
"Psyllium's not a good crop," complains Sooraji Jath, a 26-year-old farmer from the village of Lakshmipura.
"You get a rain at the wrong time and the crop is ruined..
Even at the Basic Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetics Export Promotion Council, the government agency that promotes the seed, the psyllium boom is distant thunder.
The staff brags about psyllium's hefty contribution to American regularity, without quite grasping the implications of the research on cholesterol.
The council's annual report has psyllium on its last page, lumped with such unglamorous export items as sarsaparilla and "Nux vomica," a plant that induces vomiting.
In one way, the psyllium middlemen -- the buyers and exporters -- are glad to keep news of the boom to themselves.
They want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year.
But there's a catch.
Sidhpur and adjacent districts are the only places in the world where psyllium is grown in large quantities.
This is partly due to the particular demands of the crop.
Psyllium needs sandy soil, dew during the first few weeks, and then total dryness when its seeds are maturing.
Small crops are grown in Pakistan, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium and Brazil, but their quality can't compare to that of Indian psyllium.
Big buyers like Procter & Gamble say there are other spots on the globe, and in India, where the seed could be grown.
"It's not a crop that can't be doubled or tripled," says Mr. Krishnamurthy.
But no one has made a serious effort to transplant the crop.
In Sidhpur, it is almost time to sow this year's crop.
Many farmers, too removed to glean psyllium's new sparkle in the West, have decided to plant mustard, fennel, cumin, fenugreek or castor-oil seeds.
Mr. Jath is thinking of passing up psyllium altogether this year in favor of a crop with a future such as cumin or fennel.
"Maybe I'll plant castor-oil seeds..
His brother, Parkhaji, whose head is swathed in a gorgeous crimson turban, nods vigorous assent.
So when next year's psyllium crop is harvested in March, it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom.
And the world could experience its first psyllium shortage.
Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom on Wednesday stressed Qatar's role in the Middle East peace process during talks with his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani in Paris.
Shalom told a joint press conference that the tiny Gulf state's strong relationship with the recently appointed Palestinian prime minister, Mahmud Abbas, could be a boost for peace.
"We discussed the Middle East peace process.
Over an hour of talks, we asserted the will of both parties (Israel and the Arab world) to do everything to return to the negotiating table," Shalom said.
"Qatar is a very important country on this issue.
I know the special relationship that the Qatari foreign minister has with Abu Mazen," he said, using Abbas's alternative name.
The meeting was Shalom's first encounter with an Arab counterpart since he took office as Israel's foreign minister on February 27.
Qatar has economic links with Israel without maintaining diplomatic relations, in the face of criticism from other Arab countries.
Afterwards Shalom was to fly on to London for talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw.
The Voice of America presents differing points of view on a wide variety of issues.
Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United States government.
For nearly 20 years, the world has faced the challenge posed by AIDS.
Since 1988, the first day of December has been designated by the United Nations as World AIDS Day.
This is the time to disseminate information and faster cooperation in the battle against AIDS, the number one cause of infectious disease in the world.
The picture of the epidemic is bleak.
According to a new UN study, in the past year over five million people have been infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
Since the beginning of the epidemic, about 22 million people have died of the disease.
While infections among adults are decreasing, infections among children are increasing.
Many of these cases are in sub-Saharan Africa where infected mothers are transmitting the virus to their babies during delivery.
Africa accounts for more than four-fifths of the world's AIDS-related deaths.
In some African countries, one out of four adults is infected with HIV.
But Eastern Europe has seen the biggest explosion of new infections.
In Russia, the rate of infection has more than doubled this year to 300,000.
South and Southeast Asia are other high-risk areas with five and three quarter million adults and children now living with HIV or AIDS.
In too many places, discussion of AIDS is taboo and the disease is shrouded in mystery and misinformation.
But as the grim statistics make clear, it is critical that the governments and citizens of those nations most affected by AIDS, do their part to recognize the scope of the epidemic and act decisively to confront it.
As President Bill Clinton said, we must work together to break the silence, to fight the stigmatization and protect the rights of those living with HIV and AIDS, and to help those infected find the care and treatment they need.
We must pledge to stay the course in our crusade until the world is finally freed from the shadow of this devastating epidemic.
US Defense Secretary William Cohen plans to travel next week to nine Middle Eastern Gulf states for meetings with regional leaders.
Mr. Cohen will depart next Tuesday to visit Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Israel, Jordan and Egypt.
The Pentagon says, the Secretary will consult with defense officials in those countries and also visit US troops in the area.
US forces in the Gulf have been on high alert, since last month's apparent terrorist bombing of the USS Cole, which killed 17 sailors.
An explosion struck the Cole, as it refueled in the Yemeni port of Aden.
Australia will keep open its embassy in Saudi Arabia despite decisions by the United States, Britain and Germany to close their diplomatic outposts in the country amid growing terror fears.
On the eve of a visit to the Saudi capital, Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said security at the Australian embassy appeared to be sufficient.
``We have quite a substantial security presence at the Australian embassy in Riyadh and the ambassador thinks that that security presence is sufficient,'' Downer told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
Australia is one of Washington's staunchest allies.
Canberra sent troops to fight in the war on terror in Afghanistan and alongside U.S. and British forces in Iraq.
New Zealand also has no immediate plans to close its Saudi embassy.
On Tuesday, Saudi security officials said three suspected al-Qaida militants were arrested in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, in sweeps following the near-simultaneous suicide attacks on three residential compounds on the outskirts of Riyadh on May 12.
The bombings killed 34 people -- including nine attackers, eight Americans and two Britons -- and wounded nearly 200 others.
Earlier this week, Saudi and U.S. officials said they had new intelligence pointing to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida group possibly launching fresh attacks in the United States or against American interests overseas.
I can't for the life of me figure out why anyone would invest in the airline industry.
Please, someone tell me a group companies facing more serious problems than the legacy airline carriers (Delta, US Airways, Continental, American, Northwestern, United).
High fuel costs, insane pension obligations, and a highly paid, specialized workforce.
To this list of woes, we add a whole slew of competitors with much lower cost structures.
I admit I've already taken advantage of the lower fares announced last week to book a business trip but these next few years are not going to be pretty for some of these companies.
Unfortunately, the pain is not limited to these companies.
Pittsburgh, one of US Airway's hubs, built up its airport complete with a sprawling retail complex in the terminal.
Now US Airways has reduced flights out of Pittsburgh by 28% since January of 2004 and is in real danger of folding completely.
These shiny new airports are usually financed by long-term bonds that still have to paid off.
..but not by the airlines.
This is an industry looking for a sustainable strategy.
Southwest and JetBlue were the only major airlines to earn a profit in 2004 but who knows what will be happening in another five years.
So I will thankfully accept the low fares, bemoan the loss of food on flights, and watch these companies parade in and out of bankruptcy.
BusinessWeek Online has some other commentary about the fare cuts here and about US Airway's woes here.
Some 2,500 mainly university students formed a human chain in Japanese characters spelling out "No War" in Osaka on Sunday to protest against the ongoing US-led military campaign in Iraq.
"We cannot forgive this war," Miyako Fuji, 20, one of the rally's organisers told Jiji news agency.
"I want to join together the feelings of each of us as individuals who oppose the war."
Protesters, who exceeded the 2,000 expected to show up at the park at Osaka Castle in the city's downtown neighbourhood, carried placards that read "Stop war" and "Love and Peace" while forming the human chain after 3:00 pm (0600 GMT), Jiji said.
The protest follows a string of others involving tens of thousands of peace activists across Japan since January.
According to a poll by Kyodo news agency released Saturday, 78 of 100 people surveyed opposed the military action in Iraq.
A separate poll of 1,846 adults by the leading Yomiuri newspaper published Tuesday showed 64 percent felt Japan had "no choice" but to back the United States, with only 12 percent saying Japan had "every reason" to back the war.
More than 100 FBI agents and explosives experts are expected in Yemen by the end of the weekend to investigate the suspected terrorist attack.
A team of special Naval engineers will work on recovering the bodies of ten sailors listed as missing and presumed dead.
Officials suspect a suicide bombing caused the blast, which tore a 40 foot hole in the hull of the destroyer.
Pentagon sources say an early examination finds 400 to 500 pounds of explosives may have been used.
There are no confirmed suspects yet, but officials say several Middle East groups are expected to be investigated.
But the sense of urgency for this meeting matches the rage felt by both Israelis and Palestinians after yesterday's violence.
Today Israel buried one of its two soldiers beaten to death bay a mob of Palestinians yesterday.
Today in Jerusalem, Israeli security forces barred Palestinians under the age of 45 from praying at the al-Aqsa mosque.
Young Palestinians prayed outside and some young men were asked and beaten by Israeli police which may help make clear why arranging a summit is so difficult.
And why the political leaders will have such a hard time keeping the streets -- getting the streets calm.
ABC's Gillian Findlay reports tonight from Palestinian Gaza.
On the streets of Gaza today, talk of summits and peace was the last thing many Palestinians wanted to hear.
Only a day after Israeli missiles destroyed two police boats here, one of them very close to Mr. Arafat's own office.
Today, Israel released footage of yesterday's other attacks shot from inside a helicopter gun ship.
These missiles landed in the city of Ramallah.
With Israeli gun boats continuing to control the coast today, Gaza police were taking no chances.
Abandoning their stations for the city's main square.
What Israel did yesterday has turned anger here to fury.
It is war, Palestinians say, and Mr. Arafat has no business talking peace.
You want a war.
Yes.
Why.
I hope.
Why.
Because no peace.
After all this, no peace.
At another rally in Georgia today, Islamic leaders called openly for terror attacks on Israel.
Extremist groups have a lot of support these days and a lot of power.
This afternoon, a crowd of angry Muslims set fire to a hotel and to homes of people who they say sold alcohol.
Palestinian police did little to stop them.
Even if Mr. Arafat goes to a summit, and even if he signs an agreement, there is no guarantee any more that his people will listen.
Gillian Findlay, ABC News, Gaza.
The bodies of 2 more American sailors were recovered today from the USS Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden.
US officials are on the scene and continuing their investigations into the explosion that killed 17 crewmembers on board the Cole last Thursday.
Today there are reports that police in Aden questioned the landlord of an apartment where bomb-making equipment was found and whose occupants may have carried out the suicide attack against the warship.
Also today at the Cole's homeport in Norfolk, Virginia, President Clinton led a memorial service for those who died aboard the Cole.
The service began with the playing of the national anthem.
The President asked all Americans to take a moment to thank the men and women of the military.
Today we honor our finest young people, fallen soldiers who rose to freedom's challenge.
We mourn their loss, celebrate their lives, and offer the love and prayers of a grateful nation to their families.
Mr. Clinton mentioned the name of each of the 17 victims and praised the courage and character of the men and women who serve in the armed forces.
And he delivered this clear message for those who carry out attacks on members of US military.
For those who attacked them we say you will not found the safe harbor.
We will find you and justice will prevail.
America will not stop standing guard for peace, or freedom, or stability in the Middle East and around the world.
At the end of the somber ceremony, President Clinton asked everyone to join him in a moment of silence followed by the Navy Hymn and Taps.
We have been here so many times before the threat of a wider war in the middle east.
There has been impressive progress but a lasting past remains elusive.
President Clinton today considered flying to the middle east for an emergency summit meeting, but he backed away.
How did it come to this so swiftly.
Here's Andrea Mitchell.
Reporter.
The president returns to Washington today, hoping to salvage something from eight years of Middle East diplomacy.
What went wrong.
To many peace seemed so close at Camp David in July.
How did it all fall apart.
First, Palestinian resentment.
On the street, people see no economic rewards, aren't any better off after years of peace talks, and they resent the U.S. for blaming Arafat when the summit collapses while praising Israel's prime minister Barak.
The prime minister moved forward more from his initial position than chairman Arafat, particularly surrounding the questions of Jerusalem.
It's quite clear the Palestinians do not accept the various proposals put forward to divide Jerusalem.
Reporter.
Arafat appears weak, and radical groups like Hamas gain strength.
A weakened Arafat emboldens a great deal of forces that does not want peace.
Reporter.
Second, Israeli frustration.
Many Israelis feel Barak goes too far by offering Arafat partial control of the holy sites, gets nothing in return.
I think Barak was very forthcoming at Camp David.
The intransigence or failure of Arafat to come forward with any counterproposal I think frustrated the prime minister and frustrated the Israelis.
Reporter.
Finally, the summit raises false hopes, is not well prepared by Washington.
The U.S. rushes ahead, eager for a breakthrough before the end of Clinton's term.
Other Arab leaders like Mubarak of Egypt and Fahd of Saudi Arabia are not sold on the deal, tell Arafat to hold out.
If a concerted effort was put together to consult with these people and bring them on board, then probably Arafat would have been able to cut a deal.
I think the United States did not prepare adequately for Camp David.
They should have been much more careful in the preparation and more assured of getting some kind of an agreement.
Reporter.
With most observers saying that Camp David only made a bad situation worse, questions tonight as to why the president would even consider going to another summit with even less hope of a solution.
Washington.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld took part in a Q&A with the troops today that was anything but cozy.
Disgruntled soldiers complained to Rumsfeld about long deployments and a lack of armored vehicles and other equipment.
From the Associated Press : "You go to war with the Army you have," Rumsfeld replied, "not the Army you might want or wish to have."
Spc. Thomas Wilson had asked the defense secretary, "Why do we soldiers have to dig through local landfills for pieces of scrap metal and compromised ballistic glass to up-armor our vehicles?"
Shouts of approval and applause arose from the estimated 2,300 soldiers who had assembled to see Rumsfeld.
"We do not have proper armored vehicles to carry with us north," Wilson, 31, of Nashville, Tenn., concluded after asking again.
Wilson, an airplane mechanic whose unit, the 278th Regimental Combat Team of the Tennessee Army National Guard, is about to drive north into Iraq for a one-year tour of duty, put his finger on a problem that has bedeviled the Pentagon for more than a year.
Rarely, though, is it put so bluntly in a public forum.
Rumsfeld said the Army was sparing no expense or effort to acquire as many Humvees and other vehicles with extra armor as it can.
What is more, he said, armor is not the savior some think it is.
"You can have all the armor in the world on a tank and a tank can (still) be blown up," he said.
Can't say that's the most comforting answer.
Police intercepted 33 African immigrants who came ashore Thursday in southern Spain aboard an overcrowded boat, including several pregnant women and other travelers suffering from hypothermia, police said.
Spanish media showed dramatic photos of police struggling to carry women on the verge of fainting after they were found wandering through Tarifa, Spain's windswept southern tip, Civil Guard officials told Spanish news agencies.
Police also arrested two Moroccan men suspected of trafficking in human beings and navigating the Zodiac boat across from Africa, Efe said.
Twenty-six of the would-be immigrants were from sub-Saharan Africa, six of them women, and the other seven were males from North African countries, police said.
Red Cross officials administered first aid on the scene, and the detainees were taken to a processing center for the government to begin expulsion proceedings.
Tens of thousands of destitute Africans try to enter Spain illegally each year by crossing the perilous Strait of Gibraltar to reach the southern mainland or by sailing northwest to the Canary Islands out in the Atlantic.
They seek a better life doing menial jobs in Spain or hope to use the country as a stepping stone to other points in Europe.
Most are caught trying to sneak in and some die in the attempt.
Just reported from AP that Condi Rice has been chosen by President Bush to become the new Secretary of State for his second term.
I agree with his choice and think she will make a much better Secretary then Powell did.
Her views are much more in step with the President then Powell, although he was a true soldier and carried the message.
Plus, any lady who works out to Led Zeppelin and is a Football nut is alright in my book.
Welcome to another hour of news and information on the Voice of America.
I'm David Chadwick, with VOA News now.
The death toll in Colombia from three days of heavy fighting between soldiers and rebels now stands at more than 100.
At least 54 soldiers and 50 guerillas have died in clashes around the northwestern cities of Bagado and Dabeiba.
Nearly all of the buildings, government buildings in those two cities, have been reportedly destroyed.
The clashes began Wednesday, when the rebel revolutionary armed forces of Colombia launched attacks on a number of northwestern towns.
An army helicopter went down close to the border with Panama, killing all 22 soldiers on board.
At the bottom of the sea.
Two months after the submarine "Kursk" went down with 118 men on board, divers have managed to get inside.
They found five bodies so far.
And today, they found a note, written after a pair of explosions ripped through the hull and sent the "Kursk" into the depths of the Barents see.
Here's ABC's bob woodruff.
The note was discovered by divers inside one compartment of the submarine, on the body of 27-year-old lieutenant captain Dmitry Kolesnikov, photographed here on board the "Kursk" three years ago.
"I am writing blindly," he wrote apparently in darkness.
"None of us can get to the surface..
Russian officials believe the note was written at least two hours after the sub began to sink.
"All the crew from the sixth, seventh and eighth compartments went over to the ninth..
Kolesnikov wrote, "There are 23 people here.
We made this decision as a result of the accident..
The note contains no new evidence about what sank the "Kursk," whether it was an internal explosion or a collision.
But it does contradict the official Russian version that was given to family members, that all 118 men had died instantly.
Today, the chief of Russia's navy was forced to admit to the families he was wrong, that some of the crew not only survived, according to Kolesnikov's note.
Two or three tried to get out through the escape hatch.
But it may have been flooded.
Today, Kolesnikov's widow could not hold back her tears.
"It's horribly painful, it's awful," she said.
"I had a feeling that he didn't die immediately, and it turned out my feeling was right..
She also says her husband had a premonition.
Last summer, before he went to sea, he gave her his dog tag and a crucifix, and said he may not be coming back.
Bob Woodruff, ABC news, London.
At least three members of a family in Indias northeastern state of Tripura were hacked to death by a tribal mob for allegedly practicing witchcraft, police said Thursday.
A spokesman said a group of 25 to 30 armed men Wednesday attacked a house belonging to a village quack doctor in Tultuli, 60 kilometers (38 miles) south of Tripuras state capital Agartala.
"The mob dragged out three members of a family and (killed) them with machetes and spears before fleeing the area," the spokesman said by telephone from Agartala.
The dead included the quack doctor, 55-year-old Nityalila Naotia, his teenaged son and another member of the family, whom he did not identify.
"It was believed Naotia was a practicing sorcerer and through his black magic he had cast evil spells on villagers, prompting a group within the village to eliminate them," the spokesman said.
Police have arrested four people in connection with the killings.
Superstitious beliefs, black magic and demonology are integral to the tribal custom in parts of Tripura and other northeast Indian states.
Many tribes practice faiths believed to be a mix of black magic and superstition.
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev wants to bring the nation's reformist press back into line, blaming it for contributing to the many problems he faces and even suggesting that one liberal editor resign.
Mr. Gorbachev's comments, made at a meeting with Soviet national editors and media executives Friday, indicate his growing frustration with the nation's mounting problems.
According to people who attended, he didn't advocate an end to glasnost, his policy of openness.
But he made clear that the press should show greater responsibility in its reporting and cut back on criticism of his reforms.
The text of his remarks hasn't been published, and editors say they have no instructions as to whether it will be.
Accounts of previous such meetings with media and other groups have been printed, sometimes after a delay of several days.
Although glasnost has given the government-controlled media here much greater freedom to report and criticize, Mr. Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders still regard newspapers and TV as important propaganda tools they can use at will.
According to participants at the meeting and Soviet journalists who were later briefed by their editors, Mr. Gorbachev blamed the press for fueling a nationwide mood of despondency.
In particular, he complained about some articles this summer that openly discussed the possibility of a coup or civil war in the Soviet Union, and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by printing stories about impending shortages.
He singled out the daily Izvestia and the weekly Argumenty i Fakty, and also gave stinging criticism of Yuri Afanasyev, a leading reformist historian who has written articles attacking the Communist Party.
Among other things, Mr. Gorbachev questioned whether Mr. Afanasyev should remain in the party.
The meeting lasted a little under two hours and was attended by most members of the ruling Politburo.
There was no other speaker apart from the Soviet leader, and those attacked weren't given the opportunity to defend themselves.
Mr. Afanasyev, who isn't an editor, didn't attend.
According to participants, Mr. Gorbachev was particularly incensed by an article on the front page of Argumenty i Fakty this month that examined the popularity of members of the Soviet Parliament.
The piece was based on a survey of 1,500 readers' letters and contained some criticism of Mr. Gorbachev himself.
The newspaper wrote that readers assessed his role both positively and negatively.
It said many thanked the Soviet leader for his "self-control, modesty, culture and ability to hear a speaker out..
But others criticized him, "for imposing his opinion on other deputies, giving commentaries to many speeches, holding elections with no choice of candidate, putting pressure on the voting process and maneuvering between the right and left wings" of the Parliament.
All this, the paper quoted readers as saying, "has seriously weakened his authority..
The Soviet leader apparently suggested to Argumenty i Fakty's editor, Vyacheslav Starkov, that he should resign.
The comment, which Mr. Starkov relayed to his staff, has sparked anger and bitterness at the paper.
Mr. Starkov has been summoned to see the Kremlin's ideology chief, Vadim Medvedev, in the near future, and may discover then if he is to be fired.
Izvestia was criticized for a front-page article last Wednesday that took a sharp look at the Parliament's activities.
It attacked the level of a debate on the private-sector cooperative movement, saying "the discussion was more like a riot than a civilized exchange of points of view..
And it questioned the speed with which the Parliament was adopting new legislation, often with a minimum of debate.
Speaking to foreign reporters, Ivan Laptev, Izvestia's editor, sought to play down Mr. Gorbachev's criticism, but he acknowledged that his paper had been singled out.
The Parliament yesterday approved legislation that imposes new restrictions on the cooperative movement, enabling local authorities to set ceilings for prices and preventing the "speculative" sale of goods in short supply for prices higher than that charged by the state.
U.S. and Yemeni officials have released a photo of one of the suicide bombers killed in the attack on the "USS Cole" in the port of Aden October.
17 U.S. sailors were killed and 39 others hurt.
The officials say Yemeni national Hussan Saeed Awad Al-Khamri was described by a boy as having launched the boat used in the attack.
Six possible suspects are still being held in Yemen pending a trial that could start as early as next month.
Investigators say they're still looking for other key suspects.
We've all lived next to some pretty undesirable people at one point or another, but I can't imagine anyone being worse than this.
A Colorado judge ordered two teen-age girls to pay about $900 for the distress a neighbor said they caused by giving her home-made cookies adorned with paper hearts.
The pair were ordered to pay $871.70 plus $39 in court costs after neighbor Wanita Renea Young, 49, filed a lawsuit complaining that the unsolicited cookies, left at her house after the girls knocked on her door, had triggered an anxiety attack that sent her to the hospital the next day.
Taylor Ostergaard, then 17, and Lindsey Jo Zellitte, 18, paid the judgment on Thursday after a small claims court ruling by La Plata County Court Judge Doug Walker, a court clerk said on Friday.
The girls baked cookies as a surprise for several of their rural Colorado neighbors on July 31 and dropped off small batches on their porches, accompanied by red or pink paper hearts and the message: "Have a great night."
The Denver Post newspaper reported on Friday that the girls had decided to stay home and bake the cookies rather than go to a dance where there might be cursing and drinking.
Zebra Report has a picture of the good-intentioned girls.
Maybe delinquency does pay off better.
The Canadian government, with a view to becoming more politically active in Latin America, is expected to announce tomorrow its application to join the Organization of American States, a Washington-based regional agency.
The expected Canadian move has been welcomed by the Bush administration even though Canada has opposed such U.S. actions as the trade embargo against Cuba, the invasion of Grenada and the military support for Nicaragua's Contra guerrillas.
Latin American countries have long urged Canada to join the OAS in the hopes that it would be a counterweight to the U.S., which for many years tended to dominate the 32-nation organization.
Even though the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership, it hasn't been a Washington priority.
"The fact that we might not side with the Americans may be a reason why Canada's membership in the OAS hasn't been, over the years, an item high on the U.S. agenda," said Allan Gotlieb, former Canadian ambassador to the U.S.
The Canadian application is expected to be announced in San Jose, Costa Rica, by Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, who is attending a centenary celebration of Costa Rican democracy.
"Canada has a larger and more beneficial role to play in the hemisphere," Mr. Mulroney said recently.
Some Canadian political commentators have opposed Canada's joining what they see as a U.S.-dominated organization.
"Canada could do plenty of things to get serious about Latin America without running the risk of getting caught in the cross fire" between the U.S. and Latin American members of the OAS, said Jeffrey Simpson, a columnist in Toronto's Globe & Mail newspaper.
Canada, at times, could be an awkward OAS partner for the U.S. if its United Nations voting record is an indication.
In U.N. General Assembly votes last year, Canada voted the same as the U.S. only 63% of the time.
France voted the same as the U.S. 76% of the time, West Germany 79% and Britain 83%.
Larry Birns, director of the Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a liberal research group, said that Latin American countries would be "profoundly disappointed" if Canada were to follow the U.S. lead in the OAS.
"Latin Americans see Canada as a non-interventionist power that respects their sovereignty," he said.
The OAS, which tries to promote peace and economic development within the Americas, is attempting to find a settlement of the current Panama political crisis.
Cuba has been suspended from OAS membership, but the organization's members are discussing Cuba's reinstatement.
The Food and Drug Administration banned all imports of mushrooms from China in response to a rash of food-poisoning outbreaks linked to canned Chinese mushrooms.
"The agency has concluded that contamination may be widespread throughout the mushroom-processing industry in China," an FDA spokesman said yesterday.
The agency won't allow mushrooms that were canned or packed in brine at any Chinese plant to enter the U.S. until "satisfactory sanitation-control measures are implemented in China to prevent" bacterial contamination.
On May 19, the FDA began detaining Chinese mushrooms in 68-ounce cans after more than 100 people in Mississippi, New York and Pennsylvania became ill from eating tainted mushrooms.
In subsequent tests, the agency found smaller-size cans from several Chinese plants to be similarly contaminated.
The outbreaks were traced to Staphylococcus aureus, a type of bacteria that produces a toxin capable of surviving the high temperatures used in canning vegetables.
A recall of the mushrooms blamed for the food poisoning began in early March.
In 1987, China exported 65 million pounds of mushrooms, valued at $47 million, to the U.S.
The shipments went mostly to food-service distributors that supply pizzerias and restaurants.
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy here said that the Beijing government has taken "many effective measures" to stop the mushroom contamination and is further investigating the underlying causes.
He predicted the problem will be solved "very soon..
With the presidential debate tonight in St. Louis, the candidates will be in the middle of a hot political issue that's not getting much national attention -- what to do about the Missouri river, the fabled waterway of Lewis and Clark that joins the Mississippi in St. Louis.
It's a far different river now than it once was, and the question is -- should it be allowed to return to its true form.
NBC's national correspondent is Jim Avila.
Reporter.
The wide Missouri, pioneers called it  -- too thick to drink, too thin to plow.
A shallow, slow moving, swampy river that birds and fish loved in its natural state.
The ebb and flow in a river like the Missouri provides the basis for life itself.
Reporter.
But the Missouri is no longer wild, tamed by dams and dredging.
Now a shipping highway the government says endangers the very existence of three critical river species -- the 100 million-year-old Pallid Sturgeon, the shore-wading the Least Tern.
The Missouri's natural rhythm destroyed, say the experts, by six dams in a system from north central Montana to the Mississippi River.
A transformation turning the meandering river into essentially a deep water ditch.
Without providing the higher flow in the spring and the lower flow in the summer that Missouri river species are adapted to, they're going to disappear.
Today's sturgeon can't reproduce in the river any more, only in man-made hatcheries and sand bars, homes to wading birds are being washed away by deep water.
So to save fish and birds and improve recreational use in up-river states, where tourism is a major source of income, the government wants to alter 50 years of steady water flow.
Re-creating the original river by releasing more water in spring, less in summer -- fighting words for downriver farmers and barge operators.
Try explaining that times have changed, nonsense to the people who live along the Missouri river and don't want to go back to the spring floods.
Reporter.
It's about the water and who controls it.
The Missouri, second longest river in the country.
7 states, 2,500 miles long and now according to conservationists, second on the list of rivers in danger.
Farmers say it's the planting season that's in danger if the Missouri isn't controlled in spring.
And barge owners say two dry months in the summer will ruin business.
What this proposal does is double the cost of operation on the Missouri river and will cause those companies to move off the river.
Reporter.
But according to figures from the U.S. Corps of Army Engineers, the four grain producing states along the Missouri, producing nearly 5 billion bushels of grain each year, ship very little by barge now.
16.7 million bushels.
That's .3%.
The barge companies do not own the Missouri river.
The flood plain farmers do not own the Missouri river.
Everybody owns it.
We have to find a way to share the Missouri.
Reporter.
And say environmentalists save three threatened  species and a leisure economy dependent upon a wide, untamed Missouri.
Jim Avila, NBC news, Bismarck, North Dakota.
Early this century, diamond mining in the magnificent dunes where the Namib Desert meets the Atlantic Ocean was a day at the beach.
Men would crawl in the sand looking for shiny stones.
It was as easy as collecting sea shells at Malibu.
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes, searching for that unusual glint.
But only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's diamond kingpins, do their work.
Last year, 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats, which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat, or one-fifth gram.
Oh yes, the Atlantic was also pushed back 300 yards.
"If there's diamonds out there, we'll get to them," says Les Johns, De Beers's engineering manager.
Here, wedged between shifting dunes and pounding waves at the world's most inhospitable diamond dig, lies the earth's most precious jewel box.
Thanks to centuries of polishing by Mother Nature -- first in the gentle current of the Orange River that carried the stones from South Africa's interior, then in the cold surf of the ocean, and finally in the coarse sands of the desert -- 98% of the diamonds uncovered are of gem quality.
While other mines might yield more carats, a higher percentage of them go to industrial use.
Since this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault, it has been turned into one.
Months after railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908, the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area, a designation normally reserved for military operations.
When the Germans lost World War I, they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer, patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers.
Today, no one gets in or out of the restricted area without De Beers's stingy approval.
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa.
Ghost towns dot the Namib dunes, proving diamonds aren't forever.
Oranjemund, the mine headquarters, is a lonely corporate oasis of 9,000 residents.
Jackals roam the streets at night, and gemsbok, hardy antelope with long straight horns, wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers.
On most days, the desert's heat and the cool of the ocean combine to create a mist like a damp rag.
The wind, stinging with sand, never seems to stop.
Still, miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming.
And Oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds.
There are six video rental shops, three restaurants, one cinema and 34 sports and recreation clubs for everything from cricket to lawn bowling.
The pride of Oranjemund is the 18-hole golf course -- with the largest sand trap in the world.
Last year, when the rising Orange River threatened to swamp the course, the same engineers who are pushing back the Atlantic rushed to build a wall to hold back the flood.
"Nothing is too good for our golf course," says Tony George, a mining engineer.
Despite fears the mine may be partially nationalized by the new Namibian government following next month's elections freeing the country from South African control, De Beers engineers are working to extend the mine's productive life for another 25 years, from the current estimate of 10.
Huge machines that look as though they came from the Star Wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes.
Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters; a whirring ferris wheel-like excavator, with buckets instead of seats, chews through layers of compacted sand; tracks and conveyor belts, shuttling sand to the screening plants, criss-cross the beach.
Then there is the artificial sea wall, 600 yards long and 60 yards thick, jutting into the ocean.
Made of sand, it receives around-the-clock maintenance against the battering waves.
When the mining in front of the wall is complete, it is moved northward.
A companion jetty that helps hold back the sea looks like a rusting junkyard.
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier, but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood.
Then someone decided to try broken-down earthmoving equipment that, inexplicably, held against the waves.
"The Caterpillar people aren't too happy when they see their equipment used like that," shrugs Mr. George.
"They figure it's not a very good advert..
Despite all these innovations, most of the diamonds are still found in the sand swept away by the men wielding shovels and brushes -- the ignominiously named "bedrock sweepers" who toil in the wake of the excavators.
Laboring in blue and gray overalls, they are supposed to concentrate on cleaning out crevices, and not strain their eyes looking for diamonds.
But should they spy one, the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value.
For these workers at the bottom of the mine's pay scale, this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15 years in jail.
Still, employees do occasionally try to smuggle out a gem or two.
One man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie.
Another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe.
A food caterer stashed stones in the false bottom of a milk pail.
None made it past the body searches and X-rays of mine security.
The United States is hoping that Russia's President Vladimir Putin will follow the advice of his special commission and pardon Edmund Pope.
This week the American businessman began serving a 20-year prison sentence in Moscow after being convicted of spying.
Specifically Russian prosecutors charged that Pope had stolen secrets relating to a high-speed Russian torpedo.
Pope denied the charges and Washington backed him up.
Marsha Lipman is Editor of Moscow based news magazine 'Itogi'.
Marsha, did the Presidential Pardons Commission give any reason for their decision.
It gave several reasons.
I am not sure if those were the formal reasons but members of the commission have been interviewed today by various outlets and they say that they were afraid of the spy mania rising in Russia, that they thought it was really suspicious to them that Edmund Pope was sentenced to the maximum term, whereas the article of the law had 10 to 20 years.
He was sentenced to 20, even though according to the members of the Pardon Commission, the evidence that was presented by the prosecution was far from quotient.
They also said this court did not give the lawyers for the defense due procedure.
The court listened to the defense much less than it did to the prosecution.
Much of this sounds less like a pardon and more like a criticism of the number of institutions that Mr. Putin also has to show some support of,  including his court system and his police and his prosecutors.
How is he going to respond to this and when.
I don't think anybody knows and I don't think anybody will know until President Putin has responded.
It is his decision.
According to the Russian law the Pardon Commission, after it has made its decision, sends it to the President and it's up to him whether to endorse it or not to say no.
One last question for you, Marsha.
He does have a lot to balance doesn't he, President Putin.
Not only the institutions I mentioned but the need to keep things somehow free of tension.
Is this case likely to strain US-Russian relations.
I'm afraid it might.
Recently the Russian policy toward the US has fallen into a line where Russia tries to demonstrate force it once had but no longer does.
It wants to put an end to what is regarded by the current Russian government as humiliation of the past years.
There were numerous attempts to be a source of minor troubles even though Russia can no longer be a source of scare to the west and among such instances there were several, there was just recently flying over by Russian military planes over Kitty Hawk, an American warship.
There is also a scandal that erupted over Russia's declaration that it will sell weapons to Iran, contrary to the earlier made agreement.
Such examples are quite a few already, some of them are combined with material profits for Russia but not necessarily.
Marsha Lipman is Editor of the Moscow based news magazine 'Itogi'.
Marsha,  thank you very much for speaking with us.
Pleasure.
An apparent attack on a US warship has left at least six American sailors dead and about 35 injured.
The explosion came as the guided-missile destroyer USS Cole was refueling at a port in Yemen.
NPR's Chad Pergram reports.
Both the White House and the Pentagon said the attack appeared to be an act of terrorism.
President Clinton immediately whisked to the region investigative teams from the FBI, the Pentagon and the State Department.
The attack comes as US forces in the Middle East have been placed on a heightened state of alert after days of clashes between Israelis and Palestinians.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said the US would continue to protect its interests around the globe.
No one should doubt our resolve to remain a force for peace and for stability and no one should assume that they can force us to retreat.
No one should assume they can attack us with impunity.
The Cole had just arrived in the harbor for a refueling stop.
Officials say men aboard this small boat had been assisting the Cole with mooring lines just before the blast.
Chad Pergram ,NPR News, Washington.
A former US Army sergeant has pleaded guilty in New York to conspiracy in the bombings of American Embassies in east Africa in 1998.
Ali Mohammed, a native of Egypt, has admitted to five charges of conspiring with a Saudi born dissident Osama bin Laden to attack US targets in the Middle-East.
More than 220 people died in the blasts.
Feminists have a reason to celebrate today as an appeals court just threw out the convictions of their martyr, Andrea Yates, by ruling that one of the prosecutor's expert witnesses gave false testimony at her trial.
Yates, in case you have forgotten, is the women from Texas who heinously drowned her five kids, aged 6 months to 7 years, one by one, in her bathtub.
Liberal feminist organizations rushed to Yates' defense, most notably the National Organization for Women, which provided money for her defense fund and held candlelight vigils.
No such ceremonies were held for her five dead children.
In 2002 a jury sentenced Yates to life in prison for the deaths of three of her children.
She was not tried in the deaths of the other two.
Today the 1st Court of Appeals overturned the convictions and ordered a new trial.
We can only hope for the same verdict.
An investigation is under way into a fatal airliner accident in Mexico last night.
It happened as the DC-9 was trying to land during a rainstorm.
The Aero Mexico jet skidded off a runway and into a neighborhood in the town of Reynosa, about 50 miles from Brownsville, Texas.
Four people on the ground were killed.
But the 83 people aboard the plane escaped with only scrapes and bruises.
 British Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown on Tuesday named the current head of the country's energy regulator as the new chairman of finance watchdog the Financial Services Authority (FSA)
Former senior banker Callum McCarthy begins what is one of the most important jobs in London's financial world in September, when incumbent Howard Davies steps down.
Davies is leaving to become chairman of the London School of Economics, one of the best-known parts of the University of London.
Brown said McCarthy would bring to the FSA "an unrivalled combination of experience of the public sector, experience as a senior practitioner in the financial services industry, and chairman of a highly successful regulator."
McCarthy currently heads the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, or Ofgem, which regulates Britain's privatised energy industry.
As well as previously holding senior positions at Barclays Bank, BZW and Kleinwort Benson, McCarthy was formerly a top civil servant at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Under Davies's watch, the FSA became Britain's sole regulatory body for financial services in November 2001, taking on the various functions of nine separate agencies.
Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega may have accomplished over the weekend what his U.S. antagonists have failed to do: revive a constituency for the Contra rebels.
Lawmakers haven't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras, and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday, saying only that "if there's an all-out military offensive, that's going to change the equation 180 degrees..
But Mr. Ortega's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him, effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters.
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) said yesterday on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press" that Mr. Ortega's threat was "a very unwise move, particularly the timing of it..
The threat came during a two-day celebration in Costa Rica to highlight Central America's progress toward democracy in the region, attended by President Bush, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and 14 other Western Hemisphere leaders.
Mr. Bush returned to Washington Saturday night.
Mr. Ortega announced on Friday that he would end the cease-fire this week in response to the periodic Contra assaults against his army.
Saturday, he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire if the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras.
He asked that the remaining U.S. humanitarian aid be diverted to disarming and demobilizing the rebels.
Not only did Mr. Ortega's comments come in the midst of what was intended as a showcase for the region, it came as Nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned February elections.
Outside observers are gathering in Nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates.
And important U.S. lawmakers must decide at the end of November if the Contras are to receive the rest of the $49 million in so-called humanitarian assistance under a bipartisan agreement reached with the Bush administration in March.
The humanitarian assistance, which pays for supplies such as food and clothing for the rebels amassed along the Nicaraguan border with Honduras, replaced the military aid cut off by Congress in February 1988.
While few lawmakers anticipated that the humanitarian aid would be cut off next month, Mr. Ortega's threat practically guarantees that the humanitarian aid will be continued.
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.) said yesterday on "Meet the Press": "I would hope after his {Mr. Ortega's} act yesterday or the day before, we'd have unanimous support for quick action on remaining humanitarian aid..
Sen. Dole also said he hoped for unanimous support for a resolution he plans to offer tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan leader.
While renewing military aid had been considered out of the question, rejected by Congress and de-emphasized by the Bush administration, Mr. Ortega's statement provides Contra supporters with the opportunity to press the administration on the issue.
"The administration should now state that if the February election is voided by the Sandinistas . . . they should call for military aid," said former Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams.
"In these circumstances, I think they'd win..
Sen. Mitchell said that congressional Democrats intend to honor the March agreement to give non-lethal support to the Contras through the February elections, although he added that the agreement requires that the Contras not initiate any military action.
Mr. Ortega's threat to breach the cease-fire comes as U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves.
Secretary of State James Baker, who accompanied President Bush to Costa Rica, told reporters Friday: "I have no reason to deny reports that some Contras ambushed some Sandinista soldiers..
Mr. Baker's assistant for inter-American affairs, Bernard Aronson, while maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire, acknowledged: "It's never very clear who starts what..
He added that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units when it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire.
In addition to undermining arguments in favor of ending Contra aid, Mr. Ortega's remarks also played to the suspicions of some U.S. officials and conservatives outside the government that he is searching for ways to manipulate or void the February elections.
Administration officials traveling with President Bush in Costa Rica interpreted Mr. Ortega's wavering as a sign that he isn't responding to the military attacks so much as he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections.
Mr. Abrams said that Mr. Ortega is seeking to demobilize the Contras prior to the elections to remove any pressure to hold fair elections.
"My sense is what they have in mind is an excuse for clamping down on campaigning" by creating an atmosphere of a military emergency, he said.
U.S. soldiers moved to capture Baghdad's Saddam International Airport early Friday and fought running battles with Iraqi defenders along the city's southern fringes.
``A vise is closing on the regime,'' U.S. President George W. Bush said.
Some frontline units went on heightened alert against the threat of chemical weapons, ordered to wear rubber boots and suits despite temperatures that soared into the 90s.
There was fierce fighting in Kut, to the south of Baghdad, where desperate Iraqis armed with rifles charged tanks in a suicide raid.
``We mowed down'' the attackers, said Lt. Col. B.P. McCoy.
Despite declarations that more tough fighting lies ahead, the top U.S. military official indicated there may not be an all-out battle for Baghdad.
Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, suggested isolating members of the old regime in the capital -- cut off from the rest of the country -- while an ``interim administration'' is put in place to begin work on a postwar government.
A meeting to organize an interim government could be held in Iraq within a week, a senior Pentagon official said Thursday night.
For the first time in the war, large parts of Baghdad lost electricity.
The cause was not known.
Myers told reporters at a Pentagon briefing that Americans had not targeted the power grid.
Tracer rounds lit the night sky and artillery boomed near the airport a few kilometers (miles) from the heart of President Saddam Hussein's capital of 5 million people.
At one stage, it appeared that U.S. forces had taken control of the airport, ``and then it got more confusing with continued fighting, Myers said Thursday night.
Capture of the airport would give American and British troops a facility for airlifting equipment and troops to Baghdad.
Along the city's southern edge, U.S. tanks and Bradley vehicles destroyed at least seven Iraqi armored personnel carriers and more than 15 Iraqi tanks in fighting that went on for more than four hours.
Two weeks into the war, American commanders reported a string of successes -- on the battlefield and within an Iraqi population initially reluctant about embracing invading troops.
Kurdish fighters in the north chipped in, when a top leader suggested they may agree not to seek control of the northern city of Kirkuk.
There were battlefield setbacks, as well.
Two Marines were killed and one injured in the close-quarters fighting in Kut.
And an Army soldier investigating a destroyed tank in central Iraq was killed by friendly fire when he was mistaken for an Iraqi, the military said.
U.S. defense officials also were investigating whether a Navy Hornet jet that crashed Wednesday was shot down by a U.S. Patriot missile.
The Navy was searching for the pilot Thursday.
The overall toll of American troops dead passed 50, and Bush visited a Marine camp, which has lost 13 -- more than any other installation.
``He's in heaven,'' the commander in chief told the family of one fallen Marine in a private moment.
To the cheers of thousands earlier in a speech, he vowed victory, and said, ``A vise is closing on the regime.''
Iraqi officials issued the latest in a series of exhortations in Saddam's name.
``Fight them with your hands.
God will disgrace them,'' they said, referring to invading American and British troops.
But the daily urgings seemed increasingly at odds with the military situation across the country, and Myers said Saddam had lost control of 45 percent of Iraq's territory.
As conventional units fought their way to the outskirts of the capital, officials said special forces had raided the Tharthar presidential palace near Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
Documents were seized at the site north of Baghdad, said Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks at U.S. Central Command in the Persian Gulf, but no ranking members of the regime were found.
``That's all right, he added, ``there's other operations ongoing.''
To the far north, U.S. special forces and Kurdish militiamen captured the town of Bardarash and a nearby bridge, one of few routes into the city of Mosul near government-held oil fields.
Iraqis had held the town for 13 years.
In the country's southern region, British forces penetrated closer to the center of Basra, and warplanes dropped 500-pound (225-kilogram) and 1,000-pound (450-kilogram) laser-guided bombs on an Iraqi intelligence complex.
Die-hard defenders have held out for days inside the city of 1.3 million.
American officials cited continuing examples of Iraqis cooperating with invading troops.
In Najaf, they said a prominent cleric under house arrest by the Iraqi government had urged the population not to interfere with the operations of American or British forces.
A small group of Iraqi defenders has been holding out inside the city in a mosque, considered a Shiite holy site, and local clerics said one religious leader had recently arrived in hopes of arranging for their safe passage out of the shrine.
Ground forces closed in on Baghdad from separate southern approaches, the Army from the southeast and Marines from the southwest, in advances begun Tuesday night.
American and British helicopters and planes bombed positions in Kut, and Marines and Iraqis lobbed grenades at close quarters.
Between 10 and 15 Iraqis armed only with rifles charged Marine tanks in the suicide charge.
Two U.S. Marines died in the fighting -- and a medic who tried to save one of them sorrowfully buried his resuscitation equipment on the spot.
Army forces rolled past dozens of dead Iraqi soldiers and bombed-out hulks of Iraqi military equipment as they made their way toward Baghdad from the area around Karbala.
Many more Iraqi soldiers surrendered to the overwhelming force of the Americans, and were shuttled to the rear.
At the same time they worried about chemical weapons attacks, Brooks disclosed that a special operations force in the southwestern desert had found a number of bottles ``marked in strange ways.''
He said an investigation was under way.
Walter Sisulu and the African National Congress came home yesterday.
After 26 years in prison, Mr. Sisulu, the 77-year-old former secretary-general of the liberation movement, was dropped off at his house by a prison services' van just as the sun was coming up.
At the same time, six ANC colleagues, five of whom were arrested with him in 1963 and sentenced to life imprisonment, were reunited with their families at various places around the country.
And as the graying men returned to their homes, the ANC, outlawed in South Africa since 1960 and still considered to be the chief public enemy by the white government, defiantly returned to the streets of the country's black townships.
A huge ANC flag, with black, green and gold stripes, was hoisted over the rickety gate at Mr. Sisulu's modest house, while on the street out front, boys displayed the ANC colors on their shirts, caps and scarves.
At the small four-room home of Elias Motsoaledi, a leading ANC unionist and a former commander in the group's armed wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe, well-wishers stuck little ANC flags in their hair and a man tooted on an antelope horn wrapped in ANC ribbons.
"I am happy to see the spirit of the people," said Mr. Sisulu, looking dapper in a new gray suit.
As the crowd outside his home shouted "ANC, ANC," the old man shot his fists into the air.
"I'm inspired by the mood of the people..
Under the laws of the land, the ANC remains an illegal organization, and its headquarters are still in Lusaka, Zambia.
But the unconditional release of the seven leaders, who once formed the intellectual and organizational core of the ANC, is a de facto un-banning of the movement and the rebirth of its internal wing.
"The government can never put the ANC back into the bottle again," said Cassim Saloojee, a veteran anti-apartheid activist on hand to welcome Mr. Sisulu.
"Things have gone too far for the government to stop them now.
There's no turning back..
There was certainly no stopping the tide of ANC emotion last night, when hundreds of people jammed into the Holy Cross Anglican Church in Soweto for what became the first ANC rally in the country in 30 years.
Deafening chants of "ANC" and "Umkhonto we Sizwe" shook the church as the seven aging men vowed that the ANC would continue its fight against the government and the policies of racial segregation on all fronts, including the armed struggle.
And they called on the government to release Nelson Mandela, the ANC's leading figure, who was jailed with them and remains in prison.
Without him, said Mr. Sisulu, the freeing of the others "is only a half-measure..
President F.W. de Klerk released the ANC men -- along with one of the founding members of the Pan Africanist Congress, a rival liberation group -- as part of his efforts to create a climate of trust and peace in which his government can begin negotiations with black leaders over a new constitution aimed at giving blacks a voice in national government.
But Pretoria may instead be creating a climate for more turmoil and uncertainty in this racially divided country.
As other repressive governments, particularly Poland and the Soviet Union, have recently discovered, initial steps to open up society can create a momentum for radical change that becomes difficult, if not impossible, to control.
As the days go by, the South African government will be ever more hard pressed to justify the continued imprisonment of Mr. Mandela as well as the continued banning of the ANC and enforcement of the state of emergency.
If it doesn't yield on these matters, and eventually begin talking directly to the ANC, the expectations and promise raised by yesterday's releases will turn to disillusionment and unrest.
If it does, the large number of right-wing whites, who oppose any concessions to the black majority, will step up their agitation and threats to take matters into their own hands.
The newly released ANC leaders also will be under enormous pressure.
The government is watching closely to see if their presence in the townships leads to increased anti-government protests and violence; if it does, Pretoria will use this as a reason to keep Mr. Mandela behind bars.
Pretoria hasn't forgotten why they were all sentenced to life imprisonment in the first place: for sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government.
In addition, the government is figuring that the releases could create a split between the internal and external wings of the ANC and between the newly freed leaders and those activists who have emerged as leaders inside the country during their imprisonment.
In order to head off any divisions, Mr. Mandela, in a meeting with his colleagues before they were released, instructed them to report to the ANC headquarters in Lusaka as soon as possible.
The men also will be faced with bridging the generation gap between themselves and the country's many militant black youths, the so-called young lions who are anxious to see the old lions in action.
Says Peter Mokaba, president of the South African Youth Congress: "We will be expecting them to act like leaders of the ANC..
They never considered themselves to be anything else.
At last night's rally, they called on their followers to be firm, yet disciplined, in their opposition to apartheid.
"We emphasize discipline because we know that the government is very, very sensitive," said Andrew Mlangeni, another early Umkhonto leader who is now 63.
"We want to see Nelson Mandela and all our comrades out of prison, and if we aren't disciplined we may not see them here with us..
And this is VOA News now.
I'm Tom Crosby.
As we have been reporting, the White House confirms Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat are going to meet separately with President Clinton later this week.
Meanwhile, there has been continued trouble in the streets of West Bank and the Gaza Strip with at least two more Palestinians killed, Sunday in clashes with Israeli troops.
Laurie Kassman reports the trouble came despite an impassioned plea from Prime Minister Barak that Mr. Arafat rein in the rioters and return to the negotiating table.
On Saturday, Palestinians reported more than 30 injuries.
But reports of the fighting also talked of a drop in the level of violence, since both sides agreed to a cease-fire late Wednesday night.
More than 170 Palestinians have died and more than 6000 are reported to have been wounded in clashes with the Israeli military.
Several Israeli soldiers and civilians have also been killed.
Shopkeepers in East Jerusalem are being urged to close their doors to protest against the killing of two Palestinian teenagers on Friday, Southeast of Jerusalem.
Both Arab and Israeli businesses are suffering from the latest violence.
A shopkeeper in the Arab town of Jaffa, which is adjacent to Tel Aviv, complains that few Israelis venture into the area since clashes erupted there a few weeks ago.
Jaffa is usually bustling with Israeli and foreign tourists.
All our work is dependent totally on the Jews.
If they are not coming, so really we cannot work.
I mean, what happens that the Arabs here, the 20,000 Arabs in is dependent on the Jews going to their market and the Jews coming here.
So we cannot live, I mean, we are really totally paralyzed right now.
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat have agreed to meet separately with US President Bill Clinton to see how to ease tensions and get the peace process back on track.
The meetings will take place later in the week after the US presidential vote on Tuesday.
Laurie Kassman, VOA News, Jerusalem.
From the St. Pete Times : Some Florida legislators want to give people the right to shoot an attacker in a public place.
A House committee voted Wednesday to allow people to shoot to kill in self-defense if they are attacked "in any other place where he or she has a right to be."
Sponsored by Rep. Dennis Baxley, an Ocala Republican, the bill (HB 249) passed 13-0.
State law defines deadly force as that which is likely to cause "death or great bodily harm," such as firing a gun at a person or a vehicle.
Florida courts consider deadly force a last resort and have held that a person being attacked has the "duty to use every reasonable means to avoid the danger, including retreat, prior to using deadly force."
But this legislation says a person who is under attack in a public place "has no duty to retreat."
"Law-abiding people should not be told that if they are attacked, they should turn around and run," NRA lobbyist Marion Hammer told lawmakers.
"This bill gives back rights that have been eroded and taken away by a judicial system that at times appears to give preferential treatment to criminals."
Baxley held up a stack of more than 800 e-mails from Floridians who he said have written him to support the bill.
He said 62 House members, a majority, have endorsed his bill, and supporters include Attorney General Charlie Crist and groups representing Florida sheriffs, police chiefs and police officers.
Rep. Jeff Kottkamp, R-Cape Coral, said the bill reminded him of a sign he saw on a constituent's house while campaigning door-to-door.
Kottkamp said the sign, next to a doorbell, showed a smoking .44-Magnum handgun and the words: "We don't dial 911."
This is great news for Florida gun carriers because now to defend yourself you don't have to first make sure a "duty to retreat" is impossible.
Currently, if one's life is threatened he/she must make sure it is impossible to escape before using deadly force on an attacker.
Grief engulfed Austria, one day after a fire in a cable car filled with skiers killed at least 155 people.
It happened inside a tunnel high in the Austrian Alps.
Here's NBC's Ron Allen.
As helicopters carried emergency crews to the scene of the disaster nearly 100 Americans headed home to military bases in Germany, without eight members of their ski clubs who never came back.
Major Drew Stathis and his 8-year-old daughter say they might have been trapped, but they were just five minutes behind the group.
In the Army you kind of expect, prepare yourself.
But not on a family vacation.
That's where the tragedy is.
Lieutenant Mike Coe got tired of waiting for a train and left a family of four Americans who died, standing in line.
It is horrifying what happened to them.
And it is horrifying how close I was to -- I mean, I guess I'm a good, impatient American who did not want to wait in line.
Today this Alpine resort town came to an abrupt halt as more than 150 victims were all but positively identified.
Friends and relatives who'd been waiting and hoping were taken to a private memorial service.
Up the mountain the usually packed ski areas were completely deserted.
Investigators still haven't figured out what caused this disaster.
Several eyewitnesses have told them they saw flames coming from the train as it headed up the mountain, before it entered the tunnel.
One official here said, by the time the driver noticed the fire, it already was too late.
The main concern now is to remove and identify the victims.
These Americans ended a holiday weekend burdened by a deep sense of loss.
Nobody is looking forward to the long bus ride with our friends missing.
It's going to be hard.
Hard for this entire nation mourning the worst disaster here that anyone can remember.
Ron Allen, NBC News, Kaprun, Austria.
Edmund Pope, the U.S. businessman convicted of espionage in Russia, is offering the first details of his eight-month stay in a Moscow prison.
Speaking from a U.S. military hospital in Germany, Pope says he was treated well by prison guards, but suffered from mental anguish and depression.
Today, Pope is undergoing an extensive medical checkup, to see if there is any recurrence of bone cancer.
He's undergoing tests for skin cancer as well.
He will wait for the results before returning home to the U.S.
Pope was pardoned yesterday by Russian president Vladimir Putin.
A Moscow court has denied a request by US spy suspect Edmond Pope for a medical examination, despite his rare bone cancer.
Mr. Pope's condition has gone untreated since he was jailed five months ago.
Russia accuses the former US naval intelligence officer of illegally obtaining secrets about a high-tech Russian torpedo.
On Friday the court denied a series of defense motions that also included a request to tape the proceedings and replace the court translator, who works for Russian security.
The trial opened Wednesday and has been suspended until Monday.
In Yemen, a bomb threat has forced the tightening of security at the hotel housing US investigators probing the attack on the USS Cole.
Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon told reporters the situation caused the Secretary of Defense to call US field commanders.
The Secretary held a video conference call with all the commanders in chiefs, as well as the service chiefs and the service secretaries and the topic was force protection.
The hotel has been hosting scores of investigators who are looking into the apparent suicide bomb attack on the navy destroyer that killed 17 US sailor two weeks ago.
It was a parent's ultimate nightmare.
As the crippled jet prepared for an emergency landing, Sylvia Tsao wrapped her 23-month-old son, Evan, in blankets and, following cabin-crew orders, placed him on the floor.
She held him down tightly, trying to protect him.
"Suddenly, the world seemed to end," she told investigators later.
Crashing into a cornfield, United Airlines' Flight 232 flipped over, and she lost her grip on her son.
"I saw for an instant my son's body floating and flying" toward the back of the plane, Ms. Tsao recalled.
When the plane stopped moving, she frantically tried to find him.
But Evan died of smoke inhalation.
July's Sioux City crash has fueled an emotionally charged debate.
Safety advocates and members of Congress, calling babies "the neglected population," are stepping up a campaign for the mandatory use of infant safety seats on all flights.
But the Federal Aviation Administration is reluctant to require separate seats for babies because of the added cost for traveling parents.
Some FAA officials note that few infants have been killed in plane crashes, raising the question of whether safety seats really are needed.
A 1981 Harvard Medical School study that scrutinized accidents in the late 1970s concluded that perhaps three babies would have been saved in a five-year period if safety-seat use had been required.
The National Transportation Safety Board will take a close look at the issue during four days of hearings that begin today on the broader issue of what caused the crash that killed 112 people.
"Infants', toddlers' and young children's safety should no longer be ignored as if they don't count," Mrs. Tsao wrote to the board in advocating use of the safety seats.
All 50 states require that small children be strapped into safety seats in cars.
On planes, FAA rules dictate that children two years old and over have their own tickets and be strapped into regular seats, just as adults are.
Babies under two may sit on laps and fly for free.
But it is almost impossible to keep hold of a baby during an air crash, or even in severe turbulence.
During the Sioux City crash, Lori Michaelson of Cincinnati lost her grip on her baby as the plane lurched and tipped over.
Another passenger heard one-year-old Sabrina's cry and pulled her from an overhead luggage compartment.
The FAA encourages the use of safety seats, but in the past many parents have run into problems trying to use them, even when the plane was only half-full or they had bought an extra ticket especially for the baby.
When Vanessa Merton, an associate dean at Pace University School of Law, decided to take her young son to Europe last spring, she called four carriers to ask about their policies on car seats.
"The people acted like I was transporting heroin," she says.
One reservation agent told her -- incorrectly -- that the airline barred the use of the seats on flights.
After the Sioux City crash, Lori Michaelson bought a car seat for her daughter for the flight home to Cincinnati.
But on one leg of the trip, she was ordered by a flight attendant to take Sabrina out of the seat and hold her during takeoff and landing -- the most dangerous parts of any flight.
Airlines say that such mistakes are decreasing in the aftermath of Sioux City, but proponents of the safety devices say they still get complaints from parents.
"People are told one thing on the phone, another at check in, another at the gate, and another on the plane," says Stephanie Tombrello, executive director of the Los Angeles Area Child Passenger Safety Association, which petitioned the FAA in June for mandatory use of child-safety seats.
The Association of Flight Attendants, the main flight attendants' union, is strongly backing that request.
The FAA argues that requiring safety seats for all babies might actually diminish, not enhance, safety.
As part of such a rule, officials say, parents would probably be required to buy an extra ticket for the baby.
The increased cost of flying would inevitably encourage some families to drive rather than fly, they say.
Commercial airlines have the lowest accident rate of all transportation modes -- much lower than cars, for example.
Anthony Broderick, the FAA's acting Executive Director for Regulatory Standards and Compliance, contends that the current rule is the best approach because it allows parents to make their own decision on whether to use a safety seat.
But he admits that the agency is in "a very uncomfortable position..
He says the agency soon will propose that airlines be prohibited from denying the use of safety seats.
(Most airlines don't prohibit their use..
He says the agency also will seek public comment on whether the seats should be required.
Walter Coleman, Vice President of Operations for the Air Transport Association, the trade group for the major airlines, describes the call for safety seats as "legitimate" and says the group is studying the issue.
But privately some airline officials fear that if parents must buy extra tickets for babies, whole families will stop flying.
Others worry that the FAA might write a rule forcing airlines to pick up part of the tab for increased infant safety.
Generally, airlines say they welcome the use of a government-approved safety seat and will even allow the restraint to take up a regular seat for free if the flight isn't crowded.
(Most car seats made in recent years are certified for use on aircraft and are so marked..
But space can only be guaranteed if a ticket is purchased.
What the industry really wants is some kind of device that would protect babies without taking up an extra seat.
But no one has come up with anything that is safer in a crash than the current practice of bundling babies up and trying to pin them to the floor.
Parents are advised against holding the infants, for fear that in an accident the babies could be crushed by the adult's weight.
Proponents of safety seats are turning up the heat on the FAA.
Yesterday, Rep. James Lightfoot, an Iowa Republican, sent FAA Administrator James Busey a letter signed by 56 House members urging the agency to require infant safety seats.
If the FAA refuses, Rep. Lightfoot says, he will push legislation to require the change.
U.S. forces tightened their grip throughout Baghdad, entering the city for the first time from the north, seizing a military airport and battling snipers and Republican Guard fighters.
Meanwhile, the U.S. military faced sharp criticism over assaults that killed three foreign journalists.
Pentagon officials said Tuesday they didn't know whether Iraqi President Saddam Hussein died in the U.S. airstrike on a Baghdad neighborhood the day before.
The strike destroyed three nearby houses and killed at least two people.
U.S. Marines battled snipers as they fought deeper into the capital from the east.
They seized the Rasheed Airport and captured enough ammunition for an estimated 3,000 troops.
Ominously, they also took a prison where they found U.S. Army uniforms and chemical weapons suits possibly belonging to American POWs.
Some army units routed Iraqi fighters from a Republican Guard headquarters inside the capital.
Others discovered a 12-room complex inside a cave, complete with white marble floors and fluorescent lighting.
Members of the U.S. Army's V Corps opened up a new front by entering Baghdad from the north.
The toll on Iraqi civilians four days after Americans first penetrated the Baghdad outskirts is unknown.
But the World Health Organization said Baghdad's hospitals were running out of supplies to treat the burns, shrapnel wounds and spinal injuries caused by the fighting.
Iraqi officials, however, remained defiant, saying Iraq's forces would never surrender to American forces: ``They will be burnt,'' said Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf.
In central Baghdad, a Reuters cameraman and a cameraman for Spain's Telecinco died when an American tank fired on the Palestine Hotel.
``The incident ... raises questions about the judgment of the advancing U.S. troops who have known all along that this hotel is the main base for almost all foreign journalists in Baghdad,'' Reuters Editor-in-Chief Geert Linnebank said.
Tareq Ayyoub, a journalist with Al-Jazeera, died when a U.S. warplane bombed the Arab-language satellite television's office.
An Abu Dhabi TV office in Baghdad also was hit.
Al-Jazeera categorically denied that its Baghdad bureau had been used by Iraqi forces to fire on U.S. troops.
U.S. Central Command said it fired on the TV office and the hotel after U.S. forces came under ``significant'' fire from those buildings.
Associated Press photographer Jerome Delay said he watched from the top floor of the hotel as American tanks took up positions on the bridge.
``All the shooting was concentrated on the bridge and across the river,'' where U.S. forces were located, he said.
It was not clear whether any Iraqi leader had been killed in the airstrike targeting Saddam in an upscale Baghdad neighborhood.
Iraqi rescue workers pulled two bodies from the rubble but said the toll could be as high as 14.
``I don't know whether he survived,'' U.S President George W. Bush said of Saddam at a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
``The only thing I know is that he's losing power.''
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Mohammed Al-Douri, said Tuesday he believes that Saddam is alive, although al-Douri acknowledged he has not communicated with Baghdad.
Bush and Blair sought to minimize their differences over who should govern and rebuild Iraq.
Blair favors a stronger U.N. role than Bush.
``There will be a vital role for the U.N. in the reconstruction of Iraq,'' Blair said.
``But the key is that Iraq in the end will be run by the Iraqi people.''
In northern Iraq, Kurdish forces tightened their ring around Kirkuk on Tuesday, following heavy coalition airstrikes on Iraqi fronts.
Kurdish militia took control of Sekamian plateau, about 10 kilometers (six miles) north of Kirkuk, Kurdish media reported.
The area affords a commanding view of the city and the vast oil fields of Iraq's No. 2 oil region.
The U.S. military said two planes had been lost.
An A-10 ``Warthog'' warplane was shot down near Baghdad, believed to be the first fixed-wing aircraft downed by an Iraqi surface-to-air missile since the war began.
U.S. Central Command said the pilot ejected, was recovered by ground forces and was in good condition.
A U.S. F-15E jet fighter also went down early Monday and a search was under way for its two-man crew, the military announced Tuesday.
Officials did not say whether the plane was shot down or crashed accidentally.
British forces in southern Iraq worked to restore order in the heavily looted streets of Basra, as desperate citizens swarmed water tanker trucks the day after British soldiers claimed Iraq's second largest city.
British forces also began establishing the country's first postwar administration Tuesday, granting a local sheik power to set up an administrative committee representing the groups in the region.
One of the rules of thumb that has guided my (limited) business career from the beginning is that China is never as lucrative as it looks.
This assumption is based on about 150 years of economic history, including several booms in interest and investment in China.
Their biggest problem: There's usually a 200-to-1 ratio of Nearly Starving Peasant Laborers to Absurdly Well-Off Government Employees.
And now it's an iffier 100-to-1, since there are also rich private sector employees and the labor force isn't quite so expendable.
What they've been missing for years was the real driver behind any consumer economy: Consumers.
Specifically, they didn't have a real middle class.
That's changed in the last twenty years, as increasing social mobility and a burst in foreign demand has finally made China a genuine, rather than theoretical, contender.
And they've even supplied proof of their economic viability, announcing that they've beaten Japan for exports to the US.
If only I'd figured this out in early 2002, when their stock market was by some stretch of the imagination cheap.
I dunno if you want anything to do with their stock market.
For one, its perforance last year was pretty dismal.
More importantly, its a structural nuthouse.
Unfortunately, minority shareholder rights are virtually non-existent, and excluding the dodgy financial statements listed on the exchange, lots of times companies are more interested in generating cash from an IPO then actually bothering with shareholder value.
This Economist article (not sure if registration is required, sorry):
Finally, the Shanghai Composite on July, 1997 was trading at 1189.76.
As of January 27, 2005 it's sitting at 1225.89.
That's an annualized return of roughly 0.4%.
The 5 year return is even worse (http://finance.yahoo.com/q/bc?s=^SSEC&amp;t=5y).
You haven't missed much :).
Former Danish international Stig Toefting dropped his appeal of an assault conviction and will serve a four-month jail sentence, Denmark's TV2 reported Monday.
Toefting was convicted in October 2002 of assaulting a pair of restaurant workers during a night out with national squad teammates in the capital, Copenhagen.
He was sentenced to four months in prison, but appealed.
The hearing was scheduled for April 10.
TV2, quoting Toefting's lawyer Anders Nemeth, reported that that 33-year-old midfielder was ready to serve his sentence immediately.
Neither Toefting or Nemeth were immediately available for comment.
Earlier this month, Toefting said English Premier League club Bolton let him go so he could prepare for the appeal.
It was unclear whether Toefting would return to Bolton after serving his sentence.
The club said it wasn't aware of Toefting's decision to drop his appeal.
Toefting transferred to Bolton in February 2002 from German club Hamburg.
Toefting has been convicted before.
In 1999 he was given a 20-day suspended sentence for assaulting a fan who berated him for playing with German club Duisburg.
The popular player -- known for his temperament and the words ``No Regret'' tattooed across his chest -- retired from Denmark's national team after it was knocked out in the second round of the 2002 World Cup.
Toefting joined the Danish squad in 1993 and has 41 caps.
In news overseas, at a United Nations environmental summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, representatives from 122 nations signed an agreement banning the use of 12 highly toxic chemicals.
Among them, dioxins and other chemicals, which are known as "the dirty dozen..
They have been linked to cancer, birth defects, and other genetic abnormalities.
This recent news story is troubling in many different ways.
When I first heard of the story I figured it was some wackjob playing with a new toy but now we find out there have been 7 incidents since Christmas from the West to East coast.
The FBI, concerned that terrorists could use lasers as weapons, is investigating why laser beams were directed into the cockpits of seven airplanes in flight since Christmas.
Laser beams can temporarily blind or disorient pilots and possibly cause a plane to crash.
The FBI is looking into two incidents in Colorado Springs, Colo., and one each in Cleveland, Washington, Houston, Teterboro, N.J., and Medford, Ore., according to federal and local law enforcement and transportation officials, some of whom spoke only on condition of anonymity.
A federal law enforcement official, who declined to be identified by name, said Thursday there is no evidence of a plot or terrorist activity.
But pilots are troubled by the incidents, and the FBI earlier this month warned of the possibility that terrorists might use the devices as weapons.
"It's not some kid," said Paul Rancatore, a pilot who serves as deputy chairman of the security committee for the Allied Pilots Association.
"It's too organized."
Loren Thompson, who teaches military technology at Georgetown University, called it a "rather worrisome development," though he said experts would be more puzzled than alarmed.
"What we're talking about is a fairly powerful visible light laser that has the ability to lock onto a fast-moving aircraft," Thompson said.
"That's not the sort of thing you pick up at a military surplus store."
Thompson said a piece of equipment that could do the things the FBI suspects would be "fairly expensive and fairly sophisticated."
"It sounds like an organized effort to cause airline accidents," Thompson said.
Michelle Malkin has a post about this today where some outlets have stopped selling lasers.
Lots of people think that these indeed might be loonies playing with new Christmas toys but I disagree.
These are incidents where the Airplanes were tracked , some as high as 8500 feet.
To track a fast moving plane at that altitude would not be some toy you can get from the local wal-mart.
In my opinion this is quite alarming.
This Isn't Writing, It's Typing has a great post out with a ton of info, some of it quite scary A more frightening scenario is that terrorists may have obtained a Chinese-produced ZM-87 laser blinder which is specifically designed to blind eyesight.
The Japanese terrorist cult Aum Shinrikyo--which launched the infamous Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway system in 1995--was discovered to have experimented with the use of lasers as weapons.
According to The Asian Pacific Post, "Cult members apparently obtained laser design information from Russian institutes they visited and built a laser weapon mounted on a truck.
They had planned to use the laser against Tokyo policemen, but the plan failed when the laser malfunctioned during the testing stage."
PoliticAlex also has some info on this story also.
I found the following report that was presented to Congress recently about the shoulder launched missle threat to airliners, which this might very well be a precursor to: Recent events have focused attention on the threat that terrorists with shoulder fired surface-to-air missiles (SAMs), referred to as Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), pose to commercial airliners.
Most believe that no single solution exists to effectively mitigate this threat.
Instead, a menu of options may be considered, including installing infrared (IR) countermeasures on aircraft; modifying flight operations and air traffic control procedures; improving airport and regional security; and strengthening missile non-proliferation efforts.
Equipping aircraft with missile countermeasure systems can protect the aircraft even when operating in areas where ground-based security measures are unavailable or infeasible to implement.
However, this option has a relatively high cost, between $1 million and $3 million per aircraft, and the time needed for implementation does not allow for immediate response to the existing terrorist threat.
Procedural improvements such as specific flight crew training, altering air traffic procedures to minimize exposure to the threat, and improved security near airports may be less costly than countermeasures and could more immediately help deter domestic terrorist attacks.
However, these techniques by themselves cannot completely mitigate the risk of domestic attacks and would not protect U.S. airliners flying to and from foreign airports.
Legislation introduced in the 108th Congress (H.R. 580, S. 311) calls for the installation of missile defense systems in all turbojet aircraft used in scheduled air carrier service.
While this legislation is still under consideration, Homeland Security appropriations designated $60 million in FY2004 and $61 million in FY2005 to fund a program to develop and test prototype missile countermeasure systems for commercial aircraft based on existing military technology.
It is anticipated that at the conclusion of this program, in January 2006, the Department of Homeland Security will be able to provide a detailed analysis of the suitability of such systems for use to protect commercial passenger aircraft.
A CNN poll asks readers to rate the president's State of the Union speech last night.
After 90,000 votes Mr. Bush has a 'C-C+' grade across the board, meaning 45,000 Republicans gave him an 'A' and 45,000 liberals failed him.
But a new CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll suggests more people side with the president.
70 percent of respondents said Bush's policies on health care were positive, while 66 percent approved of the president's plan for Social Security.
78 percent said U.S. policy in Iraq is hading in the right direction, a 12 percentage point increase over pre-speech polling.
Overall, 77 percent of respondents said Bush is taking the country in the right direction after the speech compared to 67 percent beforehand.
And who wasn't moved by the embrace of mother of a soldier killed in Iraq and the daughter of a man killed by Saddam Hussein's regime?
It was a beautiful moment last night that resulted in the longest standing ovation of the evening.
Today the parents of Marine Corps Sgt. Byron Norwood said the Iraqi woman, Safia Taleb al-Suhail, had turned and introduced herself just before the speech.
"She thanked us for our son's sacrifice and made sure we knew the people in Iraq were grateful for the sacrifices that were made not just by our son, but by all of them," Janet Norwood said.
It was an uplifting moment suggesting that maybe we're doing the right thing.
I talked to a friend currently serving in Iraq last night and he says morale is up and the presence of troops is a positive thing.
They just can't pack up and leave.
Not just yet.
We must be patient.
A verdict handed down three years ago today brought debate from both sides of the Atlantic.
In this edition of "Headliners," Bob Glascoff has the story of British au pair Louise Woodward and finds out what she's doing now.
October 1997.
Louise Woodward is sentenced to life in prison on charges she murdered an infant boy.
Woodward, then a 19-year-old au pair from Britain, was accused of killing 8-month-old Matthew Eappen by shaking him and slamming his head.
The case attracted widespread attention in England, where many thought she was innocent.
Woodward had been living with the Eappen family taking care of their two young sons.
Despite receiving a life sentence, her charges were reduced two weeks later from second-degree murder to manslaughter.
She was sentenced to time served and released.
Woodward returned to Britain in 1998 to another controversy.
Her parents were accused of defrauding her defense fund.
They went on trial this year and were acquitted.
Today, Woodward is studying to be a lawyer.
With "Headliners," I'm Bob Glascoff.
Nicolae Mischie, authoritarian leader of a district organization of the main opposition party, has been jailed.
Romania voted in the last December, ousting the so-called socialist party PSD (Social-Democratic Party).
PSD managed to keep a stronghold in poor rural areas, with the help of people like Mischie.
They combined blackmail, using their right of decision regarding the public funds for local leaders opposing PSD, and strong seduction of the uneducated masses, in a marvelous way.
E.g., Mischie, who talks like an idiot, got a PhD in history.
His paper was on a political personality of the 19th century and Mischie bought the house where his paper's subject lived.
Maybe he tried to invest in his paper, maybe he believed sincerely in his admiration for the poor innocent dead guy and his ability of earning PhDs, but using a big car and living in a big house are signs for the masses that the man is an invaluable and irreplaceable leader.
Another misleading sign was his position as a University professor - he was teaching mostly at private universities, which are still ways to buy diplomas here in Romania.
Local leaders did their jobs, but national leaders, pressuring TV stations to lie, associating with old communist ex-president Ion Iliescu, failed to win in big cities.

ሶሻል ዲሞክራቲክ ፖርቲው ለመጭው የአራት ምርጫ ስትራቴጂ እየነደፈ ነው፤ እናም መሪ ሊመርጡ ነው።
It is known that communist leaders die in office (as judges of the U.S. Supreme Court) and Ion Iliescu won't be different.
All the leaders that expressed different points of view will be excluded from the party, that's the untold truth that Romanian media seem to hide or not conceive yet.
Mischie was right to criticize the national leaders, because PSD got a good share in the elections in his area.
But Mischie was wrong, because he did that while in vacation in Switzerland, where you can't go if you earn 20K $ a year.
The new power had nothing to do, but let the policemen do what they should be doing years ago.
Iliescu and Nastase, ex-president and ex-prime minister, are now left only with the leadership of the party and holding this illusory authority.
If Mischie wouldn't take his chance on them, he would still be free, with the help of the weak and weakening strings Iliescu might still pull.
President Clinton has urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to order the release on humanitarian grounds of a US businessman convicted of spying.
A White House spokesman says the two leaders spoke by telephone today, after the Russian government's pardon commission recommended the release of Edmond Pope.
Earlier, a senior Russian official said Edmond Pope could be home by Christmas.
The former US naval intelligence officer was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in prison Wednesday, on charges he illegally obtained a classified information on a Russian torpedo.
The charismatic leader of Turkey's governing party was named prime minister Tuesday, a step that probably boosts chances that the United States will get permission to deploy troops in the country along Iraq's northern border.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who favors the deployment, hinted that he will reshuffle the Cabinet, but gave no indication if he would purge officials who opposed letting in the troops as analysts have suggested he might do.
Erdogan is extremely popular in Turkey and is likely be one of the few leaders with enough clout to unite his party and gain public support for allowing in the U.S. troops.
Turks overwhelmingly oppose a war -- by 94 percent, according to some polls.
Earlier this month, the Turkish parliament shocked the United States by rejecting the deployment by just four votes.
Erdogan has hinted that he will resubmit the resolution for approval, which could take another week.
The United States is pressing Turkey to act quickly.
Ships carrying equipment for U.S. troops are already waiting off the Turkish coast.
In Washington, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers told a Pentagon news conference Tuesday that the United States would ``have a northern option whether or not Turkey fully supports all our requests.
``I'm not going to talk about the operational ways of doing it, but just be assured there will be a northern option,'' he said.
Also in Washington, Turkish Ambassador Farouk Logoglu told The Associated Press that the U.S. and Turkish militaries were holding informal discussions on the use of Turkish airspace.
The troop-basing resolution would allow the United States to use Turkish airspace.
If the resolution is not passed, Washington would likely want to use the airspace for strikes against Iraq and for airlifting troops to northern Iraq.
Refusing access to the troop deployment would mean Turkey would lose a US$15 billion U.S. aid package that Washington has offered to help cushion the country's economy if there is war.
It would also threaten Turkey's possible role in the future of Iraq.
Turkey, which fears northern Iraqi Kurds may declare independence in the aftermath of a war, has been pressing for a say if Saddam Hussein is ousted.
Secession by Iraqi Kurds could inspire Turkey's rebel Kurds, who for 15 years have been fighting for autonomy.
After he was elected, Erdogan said Turkey wanted assurances from the United States on its role in Iraq.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday there had been talks that Turkish troops could be deployed ``a short distance from their border to try to avoid refugee infiltration.''
Iraqi Kurds fear that Turkish troops could move deep into the autonomous enclave in northern Iraq and have threatened clashes.
Rumsfeld also said that like Turkey, the United States doesn't want to see a breakaway state: ``Our interest, needless to say, is to see that Iraq remains a single country,'' he said at the Pentagon news conference.
Prime Minister Abdullah Gul resigned earlier Tuesday to make way for Erdogan, who won a parliamentary seat in by-elections Sunday.
Gul will remain as a caretaker prime minister until President Ahmet Necdet Sezer approves Erdogan's Cabinet, a move that could happen as early as Wednesday.
Erdogan said he would submit his Cabinet list to the president ``as soon as possible,'' and leaders of Erdogan's Justice and Development Party met Tuesday evening.
When asked about possible changes in the Cabinet, Erdogan said: ``Perhaps there will be a small amount of change, a certain number of revisions.''
Gul's resignation had been long expected.
Erdogan heads the party but was constitutionally barred from running in November elections because he was jailed in 1999 for anti-secular activities.
The Justice party changed the constitution after taking power in the elections.
Erdogan, a leader of Turkey's pro-Islamic movement when he was jailed, said he moderated his policies in prison.
His party considers itself conservative and no longer uses the word 'Islamic' in its literature.
He now also advocates letting in U.S. troops for a war against Iraq even though it is a fellow Muslim state.
Unlike the soft-spoken Gul, Erdogan has a reputation as a fighter.
``Erdogan will be willing to engage in a bruising confrontation in a way that Gul was not willing to,'' said Bulent Aliriza, an analyst at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.
``If Erdogan decides that for his own reasons, and not U.S. pressure, he wants this, he will push it through.''
Tensions over the basing agreement spilled over into parliament Tuesday when opposition deputy Ufuk Ozkan shouted ``You are all American lackeys!'' at members of Erdogan's party, the Anatolia news agency reported.
A furious Justice party member, Fehmi Husrev Kutlu, rushed toward Ozkan, bumping into him and sending his eyeglasses flying, Anatolia reported.
Other legislators surrounded the two to head off a brawl.
In South Asia, authorities in Bangladesh's Southwestern port of Mongla have called on the Army to control riots that have left at least four people dead and 58 injured.
Officials say the trouble began when striking dock workers tried to storm the port authority offices and police fired to disperse them.
The demonstrators are demanding that more people be hired to load and unload goods at the port.
The name Father Frost may not be familiar to you, but to Russian children, Christmas wouldn't be the same without him.
Denise Dillon reports.
Santa Claus visited the northern Russian city of Veliki Ustyug to meet with his Russian counterpart, Father Frost.
It's believed Veliki Ustyug, which is about 600 miles north of Moscow, is the hometown of Father Frost, one of the main characters of Russian Christmas stories.
The 50,000 residents here have a deep respect for the history of their town, and it seemed as though all of them bundled up against the cold and came out to welcome Santa and Father Frost as they rode into the town's central square on a horse-drawn carriage.
People who live here hope this is the beginning of a long tradition that others around the world will celebrate with them.
A new great holiday came to our town.
This is how new traditions are generated.
And I hope this holiday will become nationwide soon.
As for us, we are always happy to see guests in our town.
When Santa arrived, the temperature was 16 degrees below 0, but that did not stop the Russian folk singers and dancers from performing traditional dances.
Later, Santa visited Father Frost's home, where they met with all the good little boys and girls.
When you believe in Santa Claus, then you are good people and good children.
Then your dreams can come true.
Children around the world believe that Santa Claus or Father Frost will bring them good luck, and presents, for the holidays.
Denise Dillon, "Headline News."
From the Associated Press : City residents will vote next year on a proposed weapons ban that would deny handguns to everyone except law enforcement officers, members of the military and security guards.
If passed next November, residents would have 90 days to give up firearms they keep in their homes or businesses.
The proposal was immediately dismissed as illegal by a gun owners group.
Firearms would be allowed only for police officers, security guards, members of the military, and anyone else "actually employed and engaged in protecting and preserving property or life within the scope of his or her employment," according to the measure.
Gun Owners of California, a Sacramento-based lobbying group, quickly called the ban illegal.
Sam Paredes, the group's executive director, said state law bars local governments from usurping the state's authority to regulate firearms.
"The amazing thing is they are going to turn San Francisco into ground zero for every criminal who wants to profit at their chosen profession," Paredes said.
Washington, D.C., is the only major American city that currently bans handgun possession by private citizens.
Andrew Arulanandam, director of public affairs for the National Rifle Association, said San Francisco would be remiss to use that city as a model.
"If gun control worked, Washington, D.C., would be the beacon.
However, it's the murder capital of the United States," he said.
If approved, the weapons ban would take effect in January 2006.
Quote of the day: "Firearms would be allowed only for police officers, security guards, members of the military, and anyone else actually employed and engaged in protecting and preserving property or life within the scope of his or her employment."
So preserving property or life within the scope of self-defense and protection of the home is not allowed.
No thanks.
If the people vote for this measure it will be hard to sympathize with them when robbery and rape rates skyrocket, because burgulars will know homes are not guarded, and rapists will know the only thing stopping them from the victim they desire is their own inhibitions.
Thousands of people in Botswana have lined up to view the remains of an African man whose body was stuffed and exhibited in a Spanish museum for nearly a century.
The man was returned to Africa after complaints from the UN and other organizations that displaying his body was racist and offensive.
The man will be buried at a funeral service tomorrow.
You are listening to BBC news for The World.
I'm Gregor Craigy.
President Clinton says he's willing to meet separately with Israeli and Palestinian leaders if both sides work to end the Mideast violence.
The president proposed the talks in a call to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.
Mr. Clinton says he wants to see Arafat and Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak abide by promises to end the bloodshed made at last week's emergency summit in Egypt.
A White House spokesman says Arafat is reviewing the offer.
Meanwhile, some 30,000 anti-Israeli protesters clashed with police in Jordan.
Demonstrators from across the country traveled to a west bank border town to call for the return of Palestinian refugees.
The number of police and protesters who were injured is still not known.
The blood red nation of China is trying to curb the effects of a devastating 20-year-old policy that outlawed women from having more than one child.
As a result, only about 100 girls are born for every 119 boys, because couples traditionally favor males.
Beijing has set a goal of reversing the imbalance by 2010, and to do this they will outlaw the selective abortion of female fetuses to correct an imbalance in the ratio of boys to girls.
So now by killing the males they can hopefully narrow the gender gap.
What a country!
From Reuters : Sex-selective abortion is already banned but technologies such as ultrasound have made it easier to know a baby's gender in advance, increasing the chances for aborting girls.
Despite a desire to curb the sex imbalance and a relaxation in recent years that allows rural families to have two children if the first is a girl, China has shown no sign of abandoning the one-child policy and cracks down on those who advocate against it.
One such activist is Mao Hengfeng, who was dismissed in 1988 from her job at a Shanghai soap factory after becoming pregnant a second time.
Last April, the Shanghai public security bureau sentenced her to 18 months in a labor camp for campaigning against the one-child policy.
In other news: feminists still believe they're second-class citizens in the United States.
A Pakistani court in central Punjab province has sentenced a Christian man to life imprisonment for a blasphemy conviction, police said Sunday.
Judge Shahid Rafiq, of the district court in the industrial city of Faisalabad, found Ranjha Masih guilty of defiling Koranic verses during a protest rally by the minority Christian community in 1998.
In a verdict handed down on Saturday, the judge also ordered Ranjha to pay a fine of 50,000 rupees (about 870 US dollars), they said.
Ranjha was accused of tearing down a billboard carrying verses from the Koran in Faisalabad during a Christian demonstration after the city's bishop committed suicide over the 1985 blasphemy law.
Faisalabad's Catholic Bishop John Joseph, who had been campaigning against the law, shot himself in the head outside a court in Sahiwal district when the judge convicted Christian Ayub Masih under the law in 1998.
Ayub Masih was charged in 1996 with blasphemy for allegedly defending British author Salman Rushdie, whose novel "The Satanic Verses" infuriated radical Mulsim clerics who accused the author of defaming Islam.
The Pakistani supreme court last year aquitted Ayub Masih, who had denied uttering any word against Islam or the Prophet Mohammad.
Blasphemy is punishable by death under the Pakistan Penal Code.
However, no blasphemy convict has ever been executed in the country.
Christian rights activists campaigning against the laws, introduced by late military dictator General Zia-ul Haq, say they are mainly used to persecute Christians or to settle feuds over land.
The US Navy destroyer damaged apparently by a terrorist bomb while refueling at the Red Sea port Aden has begun its journey back to the States for repair.
As Dave Gavlak reports, the USS Cole was towed out of the Aden harbor to awaiting Norwegian transport ship, that will actually carry the damaged destroyer home.
The American national anthem played as four tug boats pulled the USS Cole slowly out of Yemen's Southern port of Aden.
The Cole was badly damaged two weeks ago in an apparent suicide bombing that killed 17 US sailors.
Security was tight as the ship was towed out.
American and Yemeni patrol boats mounted with machine guns escorted the Cole out to open waters while American helicopters flew overhead.
Some Yemenis expressed relief to see the ship leave.
Many locals said they feared the bombing of the ship would serve as an excuse for continued US military presence in the Gulf country.
Diplomats and analysts have commented that a joint investigation into the attack may in fact strengthen ties between the world super power and the poor, but strategic Arab state.
US and Yemeni officials say they believe Islamic militants may have carried out the bombing.
So far two little known Islamic groups have claimed responsibility for the attack.
Yemeni authorities claimed they have detained over 70 people for questioning.
These include some Afghan-Arab volunteers who came to Yemen after fighting against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s.
Dave Gavlak for VOA News, Cairo.
Former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres is expected to meet soon with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in an attempt to quell Mideast violence.
The meeting comes amid fresh clashes between the two sides.
Fighting broke out in Ramallah, Hebron and at the border crossings between Israel and Gaza today.
Three Palestinians were killed, at least 49 people wounded.
Overnight, Israeli gunships attacked three headquarters of Fatah, the political party allied with Arafat.
Israel calls it a response to Palestinian guerrilla warfare.
Arafat is condemning the attacks.
Read this report on the U.S.-Russia Technology Symposium.
It's a great summary of the paradoxes of the Russian economy: They have a huge untapped supply of valuable IT labor, but their IT exports are only a tenth of their military exports (and only a thirtieth of India's IT exports).
They develop lots of new technology, but nobody can tell who owns what.
And, of course, their securities laws and property rights are even flimsier than China's -- after the Putin administration mugged Yukos on the grounds that it was too attractive a target to leave alone, they lost a lot of trust.
Still, they have an unbelieveable amount of untapped potential.
The nuclear submarine "Kursk" could become a permanent underwater grave for 118 Russian sailors.
Russia's top admiral says he may scrap efforts to recover the bodies if experts decide the mission would endanger deep sea divers.
All those aboard the "Kursk" were killed in August when the sub sank after being damaged by an explosion in the Barents Sea.
The cause of the disaster has not been determined.
An international salvage team is due to arrive at the scene of the accident tomorrow.
Got job?
And so, I have rejoined the world of the fully employed.
After Christmas, I got a call from the wife of one of my former bosses (at my last full-time job).
She was looking for a Development Assistant at the retirement community where she works.
I started here 4 weeks ago.
WM is affiliated with, but not run or fully supported by, the denomination I've been a part of all my life (UMC).
My grandmother (who was Baptist) lived here for a few months before she died in 1995, so I have many connections to the job.
Our offices are in one of the patio homes, and I have my own lovely office with a window.
The job's only about 12 miles from home, and I'm going against the bulk of the traffic mornings and afternoons.
It all seems perfect and yet.
.. Oh, I'm so thankful to be somewhere so nice where I might actually make a difference in people's lives, and I want to keep an open mind and hope it'll last forever, but I have a feeling I'll be restless within a year or so.
My boss is a very nice person, but conservative and resistant to technology, i.e. computers, internet, etc.
We just got new computers a week and half ago, and she's griping about XP (her old OS was Windows 98--mine was 95, so I'm thrilled with the new stuff).
I tell her it'll just take some getting used to.
We'll see.
I'm not making the kind of salary I was hoping to get, but it's the best salary I've gotten thus far.
When I was fulltime in radio I made a little less, but I got quite a few remotes, which make up for not getting a topnotch salary.
I'm still doing my TV announcing and my weekend radio stuff, so that money will help.
I'm going to start actively pursuing more voice work in the next month or so, too.
My plan is to pay off my car early, and then work on the other debts.
I think it's time to go on and fill out the adoption applications.
I'm terrified of more debt, but Mom and Dad will help with the money.
I'm not sure they realize how expensive it all is.
I'm thinking we might lean toward adopting from Guatemala, but we've still not hashed it all out.
It's almost bad making some money now, because while most of me wants to save as much as possible, the other, smaller part is screaming loudly for stuff, stuff, stuff!!!
I've got a trial subscription to XM at work because of the Dell computers, and now I'm lusting to have it all of the time.
G got me a nice office stereo for my birthday and it does have an aux jack, so I could listen to it here.
He asked if I wanted a car stereo, and I said no, but I do.
There are so many things I want.
A garage.
A dining room set.
New stuff for our house.
New clothes.
New everything.
But I want family more.
I think part of the draw of the other stuff is I could get it now.
But I'd be paying for it later.
Money makes the world go round and round and round til I'm just dizzy.
Time is reporting today that a al-Qaeda operative was captured and is spitting out that they have plans in the work to smuggle nukes into the US from Mexico, see the article here.
Thank god Bush is still our president, although I strongly disagree with him on his new immigration policy.
This policy would just make it easier for the enemy to get within our borders.
From the Associated Press : A lone gunman opened fire with an assault rifle Sunday inside a crowded mall in upstate New York, wounding one person before running out of ammunition and being subdued by employees, authorities said.
The gunman began shooting inside the Hudson Valley Mall shortly after 3 p.m. in Kingston, nearly 90 miles north of New York City.
The 24-year-old gunman went into a Best Buy store and started firing.
When he ran out of ammunition, he was captured by mall employees, police said.
Ulster Town Supervisor Fred Wadnola identified the gunman's weapon as an AK-47 assault rifle.
"Everyone was running and screaming.
Then I heard the shots," witness Heather Craig told Fox News.
Whoa!
You're telling me someone was able to take an AK-47 "assault rifle" into a mall and injure people?!
But it's New York.
They have gun laws!
And because New York has such strict gun laws - meaning citizens are prohibited from concealing weapons - a gunner can use bag-toting shoppers as target practice because guns laws keep mall shoppers at his mercy.
Had an armed civilian been inside the mall, perhaps he could have intervened before the suspect began injuring people before he ran out of ammo.
But not in New York.
Because there people like me who have never had so much as a traffic ticket in life cannot conceal weapons, unlike in Florida, where you walk past us everyday without even knowing it.
Toyota Motor Corp. said Tuesday it will promote Akio Toyoda, a grandson of the company's founder who is widely viewed as a candidate to some day head Japan's largest automaker.
Managing director Toyoda, 46, grandson of Kiichiro Toyoda and the eldest son of Toyota honorary chairman Shoichiro Toyoda, will become one of 14 senior managing directors under a streamlined management system set to be introduced after a shareholders' meeting in June, the company said in a statement.
Toyoda, who joined Toyota, based in Toyota city, central Japan, in 1984, spearheaded the automaker's Internet and telematics business -- a technology that puts wireless communications into vehicles.
Considered a candidate for future Toyota president, Toyoda oversees its China business, a critical market for the automaker.
Toyoda has been on the star track for years.
When he joined the board in 2000, he was its youngest member.
Under a reform led by President Fujio Cho, the membership of Toyota's board of directors will be slashed to 27 from 58.
Executive vice presidents will be reduced to seven from nine.
The new system is designed to ``speed up decision-making and operations,'' Toyota spokesman Shigeru Hayakawa said.
Toyota's top posts held by Cho and Chairman Hiroshi Okuda remain unchanged.
Kiichiro Toyoda founded the automaker in 1937, transforming the loom manufacturer started by his father into an automaker.
Outside the white-walled headquarters of the so-called Society of Orange Workers, all seems normal in South Africa's abnormal society.
A pickup truck driven by a white farmer rumbles past with a load of black workers bouncing in the back.
Over at Conradies, the general store, a black stock boy scurries to help an elderly white woman with her packages.
Down the street, a car pulls into the Shell station and is surrounded by black attendants.
But inside the white walls of the Orange Workers' office -- just about the largest building in town, save for the Dutch Reformed Church and the school -- South Africa's neat racial order is awry.
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes.
White women serve tea and coffee, and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards.
White children empty the wastepaper baskets and squeegee the windows.
There isn't a black worker in sight.
Not in the kitchen, or the storeroom or the book shop.
"If we want to have our own nation, then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves," says Hendrik Verwoerd Jr., son of the former prime minister and the leader of the Orange Workers, founded in 1980.
They do indeed want their own nation.
The pillars of apartheid may be trembling in the rest of South Africa, with Johannesburg opening its public facilities to all races, blacks storming the all-white beaches of the Cape and the government releasing seven leaders of the banned African National Congress.
But here in Morgenzon, a sleepy town amid the corn fields of the eastern Transvaal, the Orange Workers are holding the pillars steady.
The Orange Workers -- who take their name from William of Orange of the Netherlands, a hero of the Dutch-descended Afrikaners -- believe that the solution to South Africa's racial problems isn't the abolition of apartheid, it's the perfection of apartheid -- complete and total separation of the races.
Here, then, is where the Orange Workers have come to make apartheid's last stand.
Their idea is to create a city, first, and then an entire nation -- without blacks.
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa.
And the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe.
But their ideal of an Afrikaner homeland, an all-white reserve to be carved out of present-day South Africa, is a mainstream desire of the right-wing, which embraces about one-third of the country's five million whites.
Afrikaner philosophers and theologians have long ruminated on the need for a white homeland.
The Orange Workers are just putting this preaching into practice.
Thus, farmer Johan Fischer, his T-shirt and jeans covered in grease, crawls around under his planter, tightening bolts and fixing dents.
On almost every other farm in South Africa, black workers do the repairs.
But not here.
Mr. Fischer plows his own fields, sows his own corn and sunflowers, and feeds his own sheep.
Over at the fiberglass factory, four white workers assemble water tanks on their own, and in their spare time they build townhouses across the road.
On Main Street, Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop, then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family.
Down by the stream, a group of Orange Workers puts the finishing touches on a golf course.
If whites want to play there by themselves, says consulting engineer Willem van Heerden, whites should also build it by themselves.
"If we want to survive as a people," he says, "we have to change our way of life.
The Afrikaner must end his reliance on others..
In their quest to perfect apartheid, the Orange Workers have discovered a truth that most of privileged white South Africa tries mightily to deny: The master can't become dependent on the slave and expect to remain master forever.
"If apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it, but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration, then these are two contradictions that can't go on forever," says Mr. Verwoerd.
He is sitting in his living room, beneath a huge portrait of his late father, Hendrik F. Verwoerd, apartheid's architect and South African prime minister from 1958 to 1966.
Somewhere, the son sighs, things went terribly wrong with apartheid; today, whites even rely on blacks to police their separation.
"People took separate development as an opportunity to use black labor without ever getting rid of it.
But my father meant it to mean real separation," says the son.
The Orange Workers speak sincerely.
"We agree with world opinion that the status quo in South Africa is morally wrong," says Pieter Bruwer, the Orange Workers' chief scribe and pamphleteer.
"We must either integrate honestly or segregate honestly..
Morgenzon has long been a special domain of Afrikanerdom.
According to Mr. Verwoerd, the early Afrikaner pioneers were the first people to settle in the eastern Transvaal, even before the blacks.
Then, when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908, the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town; blacks could work there, but they had to leave at night.
Today, Morgenzon is a town of 800 whites and two paved roads.
Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks, and many houses and storefronts are empty.
There are few factories and no mines.
It was an ideal place for the Orange Workers to start their new nation, unencumbered by the demographics that have undermined apartheid elsewhere in South Africa.
So far, about 150 Orange Workers have moved here, spending nearly $1 million buying up property over the past three years.
Still, complete and total segregation remains elusive.
Just beyond the city limits is a shantytown of 2,000 blacks who are employed throughout the area.
Despite the Orange Workers' intention to put them all out of work, they are in no hurry to leave.
A young man called July (that's when he was born), who works at the railroad station just up the street from the Orange Workers office, points at the white walled building and says matter-of-factly, "We're not allowed in there, that's all I know..
The 650-or-so local whites who aren't Orange Workers are more troubled.
Try as they might, they just can't conceive of life without black workers.
"Impossible, impossible," say the Conradies, an elderly couple who have run the general store for decades.
"We can't do without their help," says Mrs. Conradie.
"Oh no.
We need them and I thank God for them..
Over at the Shell station, owner Rudi van Dyk, who doubles as Morgenzon's mayor, worries that the Orange Workers have made his town the laughingstock of the nation.
"What they want us to do just isn't practical," he says, noting that he employs 16 blacks.
"I couldn't afford to hire 16 whites.
The only Afrikaners who would be willing to work for this salary wouldn't know how to handle money..
Back at the Verwoerd house, Hendrik Sr. peers down over the shoulder of Hendrik Jr.
The son believes that when the Afrikaners finally realize there is no turning back the integration of South African society and politics, Morgenzon will boom.
"We urge our people not to wait until they have to fight for their own nation," says Mr. Verwoerd.
"By populating a place now, we make ourselves a power any new government will have to take into account..
Curiously, he compares the Orange Workers to the ANC, which his father outlawed in 1960.
"The ANC won't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations," says Mr. Verwoerd.
"Likewise, no government will stop this idea of the Afrikaners..
He apologizes for sounding pushy.
"Look," he says, "If the rest of South Africa wants to have an integrated melting pot, that's their choice.
We'll leave them alone.
We just want to have our own cup of tea..
And they will even serve it themselves.
An enormous turtle has succeeded where the government has failed: He has made speaking Filipino respectable.
The 6 1/2-foot-tall turtle, Pong Pagong, is a character who stars in the children's television show "Batibot..
He speaks only in Filipino.
"Batibot," which started in 1983 as a hybrid of the U.S. program "Sesame Street," has developed into a distinctly Philippine effort.
Radio programs and books have followed the daily television show.
In the process, "Batibot," an archaic Filipino word meaning "strong" or "enduring," has become a powerful advocate of the use of the Filipino language.
"It impresses on ordinary, young Filipinos that there's nothing to feel inferior about in using their own language," says Randy David, a sociologist and host of a popular television talk show.
"When we started the program six years ago, the use of Filipino was deemed unwise by the predominantly middle class," says Lydia Brown, the program's creator.
Now, she says, "it's no longer an issue..
The success of "Batibot" stands in marked contrast to many academic and government attempts to promote Filipino as a national language.
Filipino -- once known as Pilipino -- is predominantly Tagalog, the Malay-based language spoken in a part of the country's principal island of Luzon.
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country's elite, who generally prefer English.
But while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English, they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino, say advocates of the native language.
"For the middle and upper-middle class {Filipino} is declasse," says Bien Lumbera, a Philippine-studies professor at Quezon City's University of the Philippines.
There's also resentment.
Other opponents of Filipino come from non-Tagalog regions.
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight, although recent surveys indicate that the majority of the country's population understands Filipino more than any other language.
(There are seven major languages and more than 70 dialects in the country..
What tongue to speak is an emotional mine field in the Philippines.
It is entrenched in the country's colonial bonds to the U.S., in Philippine class structure, in the regional loyalties of its people and in its island geography.
As they did when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S., teachers for the most part teach in English, even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children.
As a result, they often speak one language at home, another at school.
Mrs. Brown calls the modern-day cultural ambivalence to Filipino a "language schizophrenia..
The issue has been simmering for years.
It doesn't take much to provoke an intense debate.
When President Corazon Aquino, whose command of Filipino is spotty, announced last year that the language would be used in official communications, there was an uproar from many legislators, who continue to conduct debates mostly in English.
But many proponents of Filipino see resistance to the language finally crumbling.
They believe the media, including "Batibot," have played a crucial role.
According to chief scriptwriter Rene Villanueva, "Batibot" doesn't set out to advance the cause of Filipino.
"It's not as if we're teaching language per se," he says, "We're just using it..
These days, "Batibot" is produced in a converted lumberyard on a shoestring budget of $3,000 a one-hour segment.
It is shown weekdays on two of the country's five networks.
With an audience totaling more than 400,000, "Batibot" consistently ranks in the country's top-four most-watched daytime programs.
But advertising revenue is inadequate.
Periodically, there are threats that the program will fold.
"Batibot" lacks the polish of "Sesame Street..
Sound stages echo.
Acting sometimes falls flat.
There are only two large puppets in the program: Pong Pagong and a monkey named Kiko Matsing.
But the production is the equal of any local program.
And the show's creativity makes up for any technological deficiencies.
The program isn't afraid to tackle controversial topics such as nuclear weapons and the environment.
Not that the language war is won, even on "Batibot..
During one recent episode, all the advertisements were in English.
Welcome all to my new site.
I've decided to incorporate my old work blog into a general blog, the work diary is up on the right titled "my work diary".
EFF YEAH!
BUSH WON!
OK then.
My next thought.
The world is a much better place now that the terrorist Yassar Arafat is dead.
Here is a good one minute video on his great legacy Here.
This guy was one of the early innovators of terrorism in this century and he is protrayed by the Main Stream Media (MSM for short) as a "freedom fighter".
Because of him millions of palestinians chose "jihad" over peace with Isreal.
He innovated suicide bombers and plane hijacking plus he embezzelled hundreds of millions of dollars from aid funds.
...and this guy got a nobel peace prize, what a disgrace.
UPDATE 1 - Drudge is reporting that Arafat has been skimming 2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territories.
MAG: Arafat Skimmed $2 Million a Month From the Gas Trade Sun Nov 14 2004 09:53:40 ETNew York.
-- Last year auditors discovered Arafat was guilty of skimming $2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territories, TIME reports.
In August 2002 international donors forced Arafat to sign over his investments to the Palestine Investment Fund, which was audited by U.S. accountants and managed by Palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayyad, a former International Monetary Fund official.
After scouring corporations throughout the Arab world and bank accounts in the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg, the auditors identified $800 million, which has been made a part of the Palestinian Authority's official budget.
It's the most successful financial reform in the Arab world, -- Jim Prince, president of the Los Angeles-based Democracy Council and head of the audit team, tells TIME.
People close to Fayyad's investigation told TIME of Arafat's skimming from the gas trade.
Breaking the gasoline smuggling and corruption boosted the Palestinian Authority's official treasury by $10 million a month and cut gas prices for ordinary Palestinians.
"Arafat's death means his followers may never know just how much more they may be owed, "writes TIME's Matt Rees in "Where's Arafat's Money?"
In the mid-1990s, Arafat controlled a financial empire worth at least $3 billion.
By the time of his death, he was down to his last $1 billion, according to Israeli-intelligence estimates.
Arafat wife Suha's outburst that his successors were "trying to bury [him] alive" came after she learned that Arafat had signed over at least $800 million to the government of the Palestinian Authority two years ago, TIME reports.
Top Palestinian officials say Suha wants the new chief of the P.L.O., Mahmoud Abbas, and Palestinian prime minister Ahmed Qurei to give her money out of the P.L.O.'s party coffers.
But a senior P.L.O. official tells TIME, "they'll pay her a pension, and that's it."
People familiar with Arafat's finances say the Palestinian leader sent Suha $200,000 a month out of the Palestinian Authority's budget for the Office of the President.
French authorities are investigating transfers of $15 million from Swiss banks to Paris accounts in Suha's name at the Arab Bank and at BNP Paribas Bank, a French bank, TIME reports.
Senior Palestinian security officials tell TIME that Arafat also shipped money to the gunmen of the Aqsa Martyrs Brigades.
Developing.
.. Sure sounds like a Nobel Prize winner to me.
A court in Moscow today sentenced American businessman Edmund Pope to 20 years in jail.
Pope, a former naval officer, was found guilty of collecting secret blueprints for a high speed Russian torpedo.
Pope denied the charges and he had a powerful ally.
President Clinton had appealed for clemency for Pope on health grounds and had brought the case up with Russian President Vladimir Putin, but Mr. Clinton's pleas apparently fell on deaf ears.
The Russian court today handed down the maximum sentence.
Still, The World's Nenad Sebek in Moscow says that Pope has not yet exhausted his legal options.
He has got 7 days to appeal this particular sentence.
There is also the possibility of asking for a presidential pardon, Pope has actually indeed already done that.
It's just that his wife said that she has not heard neither from the President nor his office.
His health is a big issue as well, isn't it.
Yes, Pope has been suffering from a rare bone cancer in the past and he has been consistently complaining about his health ever since last Spring when he was taken in to the Lefortovo prison.
The thing is that he has not been allowed any access to American doctors and even to Russian doctors of his own choosing.
He has been examined by the Russian doctors in the Lefortovo prison but they have just said that his complaints are unfounded and that it might be a case of severe rheumatism or something like that.
They are not sort of allowing the possibility of his bone cancer reoccurring.
One of the things that has been said here is that Mr. Pope may have run afoul of a changing mood in Russia about what kind of military and security information might be made available to the west for business purposes.
That his intentions were innocent to begin with, but the times changed and what he did began to look more and more like espionage.
That is certainly a possibility but we don't know actually precisely because we don't even know what the initial charges are.
The whole trial was held behind closed doors and the details of the accusations against Pope have never been fully released.
We know that the prosecution claimed that he was trying to purchase secret plans for a top-secret high-speed Russian torpedo.
He was claiming all the time, and his lawyer was saying that he was sort of trying to purchase plans that had been actually out in the open but we do not know the precise legals of that.
That is one of the possibilities.
Another thing which is mentioned here is that Pope simply ran afoul of a new trend in Russia which was a trend where the security services were getting the upper hand where they were trying to prove that they are actually doing their job, that they are catching spies, that they are getting convictions.
We have, for example, today's reaction by General Alexander Zdanovich, he is the head of the FSB support programs.
He was very, very brief in his comments after the sentencing.
He said that the court has said that FSB investigators have acted correctly and in accordance with the law and he says, "Russia has its secrets, we will do our best to protect them".
Maybe Pope simply ran afoul of such attempts by the Russian Security Services to show that they are doing their job.
Putin, on the one hand, is certainly trying to show that he is in charge and that no one from the outside is going to get away with anything.
By the same token though he is not eager to run afoul of the United States and the State Department is very upset.
Is there any possibility that Mr. Putin might consider a pardon.
I would say there is a very strong possibility of that.
We know that President Clinton has spoken to Vladimir Putin about this when they met last time, and certainly the Secretary of State Madeleine Albright has brought up the issue a number of times, as has the State Department indeed with the Russian Foreign Ministry.
In a curious way the sentencing of Edmund Pope might be the beginning of an end of this ordeal for him.
Because now that there is a sentence, once the judiciary process is started, once the FSB brought him to trial everybody here expected that the trial will end and that it will end with a conviction.
But now that this judicial process is over there is a very, very strong likelihood, that's the feeling here in Moscow that President Vladimir Putin might pardon Edmund Pope.
There is a good reason for that, his ill health.
So it would be a nice humanitarian gesture and a way of offering a friendly hand to the west and to the United States in particular.
The World's Nenad Sebek in Moscow.
Thanks a lot, Nenad.
You are welcome.
This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World service, PRI and WGBH in Boston.
I'm Lisa Mullins.
American spy suspect Edmund Pope took the stand again today in a Moscow courtroom.
The former naval intelligence officer faces charges of stealing secret designs for a high-speed Russian torpedo system.
Pope denies acting illegally and President Clinton and Secretary Of State Madeleine Albright have called for his release on health grounds but Russian prosecutors are pressing ahead as The World's Nenad Sebek reports from Moscow.
The trial was suspended earlier in the week because of Pope's poor health.
Pope has a history of bone cancer but a doctor working for the FSB, the Russian security service, pronounced Pope fit enough to stand trial today.
The proceedings are held behind closed doors and Pope's lawyer said today that his client is still very weak and that he wants a new interpreter, says the current one works for the same agency that has charged Pope.
The lawyer Pavel Astakhov says his client is innocent when it comes to espionage.
The whole case as Astakhov claims is an exercise in politics.
This is the first time in almost 40 years that a foreign national is being tried for espionage.
It's quite blatant.
Officials from the security force, which used to be the KGB, are openly boasting about taking an American citizen to court.
Way back in 1961 US military pilot Garry Powers was tried and sentenced but later on exchanged for a captured Soviet spy.
But Powers was caught red-handed.
His U2 spy plane was brought down by Soviet Air Defenses.
Pope was arrested as he was trying to purchase blue prints for what he says is a 10-year-old underwater propulsion system or as the prosecutions claims ultra modern, secret Russian torpedoes.
Former Russian Army Intelligence Officer, Vitaly Schlykov says Pope could easily have been a victim of the Russian obsession with secrets.
We have of course a secrecy culture in this country for decades and decades and reminisce of it are coming to the surface in this case.
The laws on secrecy are still intact from the times of the Soviet Union.
Guilty or not, Pope is being held under a very harsh regime in the Moscow Lefortovo prison where his wife Sherry visited him last week.
We took two pictures of our grandson and they won't let him keep the pictures and I took a coat and gloves and they wouldn't let him have those, but we did get to embrace and we did get to talk about our family for one hour.
Prison rules say that an inmate can only receive approved gifts on the first and third Thursday in a month.
And Sherry Pope's short-term visa didn't enable her to stay that long.
She says she even appealed to the Russian President.
Ed's mother and I both wrote letters to President to ask him to please take into consideration that Ed is 54 years old and that we want him home.
Military intelligence analyst Vitaly Schlykov says Putin is probably caught between a rock and a hard place when it comes to the American's trail.
I'm sure that it came unexpected for Putin.
He wouldn't have approved on a case like this because politically it is very harmful but he came from the ranks of the FSB himself.
He has to pretend that he is sticking to his guns in this case.
In Schlykov's opinion, Pope is likely to get convicted.
But he believes that immediately after the sentencing Pope is likely to be pardoned by Moscow.
US Congressman John Peterson, who has been championing Pope's cause, says he fears that might be too late for Pope.
The main thing we have been pushing for months is health care.
Earlier we had asked for an American doctor to see him.
When they continued to say no then we found Russian doctors.
The judge delayed the trial for a day and a half so we could furnish her with a list of doctors and hospitals in Moscow and after we provided that information she said no.
Pope's lawyer Pavel Astakhov says that what the authorities here call medical care is a joke.
In Pope's case medical control means everyday testing for his suspected cancer.
What they do here is take his blood pressure and temperature.
The very least they could do is take blood tests and bone marrow tests.
The court has even rejected our demand for medical expertise to establish whether he is fit to stand trial.
As Strakovs says he does not trust the Judge Nina Barkova at all.
He says she has rejected almost every one of his 40 objections and suggestions during the trail so far.
Strakovs is now trying to arrange for fresh witnesses for his defense of Edmund Pope, but is not hopeful that even that will be granted by the court.
For The World, this is Nenad Sebek in Moscow.
American Future has a link up to a article written in yesterdays Houston Chronicle.
It describes how the European Governments look to be changing their tune in regards to President Bush.
Why you ask?
But there is arguably more to this sea change than just a grumpy acceptance of the status quo.
From a European perspective, three things are making it easier to warm to the Bush White House.
One is the death of Yasser Arafat.
No issue divides Europe and the United States more keenly than the Israeli-Palestinian dispute.
For the last few years, Europeans have criticized Bush for failing to put enough pressure on Israel to get out of the occupied territories and for refusing to deal with Arafat.
That another reason why I respect Bush so much, his refusal to acknowledge that windbag terrorist Arafat.
May he rot in hell.
But since Arafat's death, Europeans and Americans have been able to find common ground: supporting Ariel Sharon's withdrawal from Gaza, putting pressure on Israel to let the Palestinians hold elections and, covertly, backing Mahmoud Abbas to become the next Palestinian leader.
A second reason is Europe's growing worries about Islamic terrorism.
The murder in November of Theo van Gogh, a provocative Dutch filmmaker, at the hands of an Islamic militant has been called Europe's 9/11.
Though the two events are obviously not fully comparable, it is certainly true that American conservatives, such as Francis Fukuyama and Bernard Lewis, have found a wider audience recently for the idea that radical Islam is inimical to European traditions of tolerance.
You mean those radical muslims can be kinda nasty sometimes?
Get outta here.
...Keep doing business like the cowards in Spain and they will more then likely have their very own 9/11 to cry about.
The third force is the reappearance, albeit in a milder form, of the threat that kept the trans-Atlantic alliance together for half a century.
The Russian bear is growling again.
The Ukrainian election --- complete with its KGB-style poisoning of the opposition leader and heavy-handed electoral fraud -- has reminded European diplomats of Vladimir V. Putin's determination to control his "near abroad."
They should be very worried about this item, I believe Putin is slowly sliding Russia back to what it once was.
Hopefully our Government isn't asleep at the wheel with this situation either.
There is a personal edge to all this.
Just as the snooty continentals eventually came to admire the gormless Hollywood actor, there is a grudging willingness to rethink some prejudices about the inarticulate Texan.
Many European leaders once swallowed the Michael Moore version of history: that Bush was an ignorant interloper who stole the White House.
His thumping re-election, however, shows that he represents a large body of conservative American opinion.
In short, Europeans are getting used to the idea that it is not Bush who is the exception, but the U.S. itself that is exceptional --- and that if they want to deal with this exceptional superpower they need to humor it rather than rile it.
Strangely enough, this has been Tony Blair's strategy all along; it is rapidly becoming the Continent's strategy, too.
Couldn't of ended that article any better myself.
Get used to it France, we ain't going nowhere.
Congratulations from foreign leaders poured into the governor's mansion in Texas today.
The messages were addressed to President-elect George W. Bush and they all contained words of welcome and optimism.
But truth be told for most international figures, Bush is something of an unknown.
He has traveled little and his diplomatic experience is limited to contacts with Mexican officials during his tenure as governor.
The World's Jeb Sharp has been hunting down clues to the foreign policy of the incoming administration.
A few broad foreign policy themes emerged during the campaign.
Chief among them are debate over the wisdom of US intervention.
Bush clearly favors limiting the use of American force and troops to solve conflicts overseas.
Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says that view is consistent with the philosophies of two top Bush advisors, Russia expert Condoleezza Rice and retired General Colin Powell.
Certainly, Condoleezza Rice, certainly Colin Powell who I expect, the two of them to be the dominant force in the next administration on foreign policy.
I certainly think they believe they would like to not intervene as much as the Clinton administration or I guess the previous Bush administration did.
In fact, Condoleezza Rice who is slated to become Bush's National Security Advisor has already said she'd like to see US troops pulled home from the Balkans.
But, Robert Kagan says its one thing for Bush's advisors to state a philosophy, its quite another to implement it.
I think they may find the world has a way of intruding itself and that it won't be that easy to pull forces out of the Balkans for instance, without destroying the NATO alliance.
After Rice made some comments about having a new division of labor, I think that was the word she used with regard to NATO and peacekeeping issues, there was a riot in Europe and the real fears that the United States was getting ready to withdraw from the continent and I think they had to walk that back a little bit.
The Balkans is just one example where the Bush administration will have to walk a fine line in delineating a different approach from that of Mr. Clinton.
The foreign policy challenges facing the next President are daunting.
The Mid East peace process is on hold with Israelis and Palestinians practically at war.
The sanctions regime against Iraq has unraveled.
Russia and China are alarmed at the prospect of America beefing up its missile defenses.
India and Pakistan, now nuclear powers are locked in a dangerous standoff.
Stability in East Asia is another pressing concern.
But despite the challenges, Northeast Asia expert Bates Gil of the Brookings Institution is encouraged by what he knows of the Bush foreign team.
One of the most interesting aspects of the new likely team under the Bush administration is first of all, extensive experience in defense and military affairs.
Secondly, it's easy to point to a number of persons who will have leading positions who have had extensive experience in East Asian affairs.
So you have a combination of depth of experience plus an understanding of the region.
Both of which will come in handy if there is a crisis with China over Taiwan or relations with North Korea deteriorate.
In such a crisis, Bush is likely to rely on the advice of government officials who cut their teeth during the cold war.
Some critics like Gore advisor Bruce Jentelson worry that the Bush team will be out of step with today's issues.
Issues related to globalization, global public health, technology, and those challenges.
Yet in my view a truly realistic policy cannot be based only on the old agenda issues, really has to address these new agenda issues as well.
But no matter what sort of expertise Bush's international affairs people bring to the White House, they won't be able to fully control what happens on their watch.
Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says each President's foreign policy is ultimately shaped by events, not theories.
Really, most of a President's foreign policy comes down to how they respond to specific events.
Bill Clinton did not come in to office intending to send troops to Haiti and the Balkans, and events sort of forced his hand and I think that, you know, the truth is Bush administration comes in with certain kinds of prejudices, but we will have to see how they respond to crises.
And the only thing that I'm confident of is that there will be crises.
President-elect Bush is expected to begin naming his top cabinet picks in the next few days.
Those choices will mean everything when the first crisis rolls around.
For The World, I'm Jeb Sharp.
Rudolph Giuliani will wed his companion, Judith Nathan, on May 24 in the ex-mayor's old home, Gracie Mansion.
The news was announced Thursday by Giuliani spokeswoman Sunny Mindel.
His successor, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, will perform the ceremony.
Giuliani, 58, proposed to Nathan, a former nurse, during a November business trip to Paris -- five months after he finalized his divorce from Donna Hanover after 20 years of marriage.
In interviews last year, Giuliani said Nathan gave him ``tremendous emotional support'' through his treatment for prostate cancer and as he led the city during the aftermath of the Sept.
11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
``We were close already,'' Giuliani said.
``And then we went through hell together.''
Giuliani and Nathan began appearing in public together in May 2000.
Soon after, he announced that he and Hanover were moving toward legal separation.
During the legal proceedings leading up to the divorce, a judge ruled that Nathan could not visit Gracie Mansion, the official mayoral residence, as long as Giuliani's children lived there.
Giuliani and Hanover have two teenage children, Andrew and Caroline.
The divorce settlement called for Giuliani to pay Hanover more than $6.8 million.
Hanover, 53, is host of a syndicated television show, ``Famous Homes and Hideaways.''
Last month, she and her fiance -- an old high school sweetheart -- invited the press along as they went shopping for wedding bands, saying they are planning a wedding in the New York City area this summer.
Giuliani's first marriage to his second cousin, Regina Peruggi, lasted about 14 years.
It was annulled by the Catholic Church because the couple had not obtained a church dispensation required when second cousins marry.
Nathan divorced wallpaper salesman Bruce Nathan in 1992.
They have a teenage daughter.
The Giuliani-Nathan nuptials will be a first for Bloomberg, who is making an exception from his policy of not performing weddings, said Bloomberg spokesman Ed Skyler.
Giuliani regularly officiated at weddings while in office.
``The mayor is honored by their request,'' Skyler said.
The dictator Suharto has fallen, the constitution has changed, the media was unshackled, democratic elections held, and East Timor freed.
After Sept. 11, 2001, Indonesia was quick to sign onto U.S. President George W. Bush's global war on terror.
Yet, Washington maintains a 12-year ban on arms sales to the world's most populous Muslim nation with the aim of curbing human rights abuses still happening despite momentous political change.
Frustrated, Jakarta's generals are looking elsewhere to replace antiquated arsenals.
Later this month Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri travels to Moscow to seek the Kremlin's help in modernizing her increasingly obsolete 300,000-member armed forces.
She is also likely to open the way for Russian companies to vie for lucrative deals in the oil and gas sector, long dominated by American and British resource giants.
Although opposite ends of the Earth, Indonesia and Russia have some basic things in common.
Both are geographically sprawling with massive multiethnic populations.
Both are struggling to preserve national unity as they fight separatism and build democracy after the collapse of decades of authoritarian rule.
Both are resource-rich, but face huge economic problems made worse by endemic corruption.
And, currently, both have opposed the U.S.- led war on Iraq.
Indonesia's Foreign Ministry spokesman Marty Natalegawa says Megawati's meeting with Russian President Putin slated for April 21 will touch on the Iraq crisis.
But other diplomats say that issue will serve primarily to bring the two closer together on bottom-line issues such as trade and arms sales.
Analysts worry that Indonesia's military is now so degraded it can no longer control the borders of the far-flung archipelago, allowing for easy infiltration by extremists.
Last year's Bali bombings, which killed 202 people, illustrated the threat of terrorism in Indonesia.
And, broad opposition to the U.S.-led attack on Iraq threatens to lead to a backlash by militant Islamists.
``Nearly everybody in Indonesia sees this Iraq war as completely unnecessary and there is widespread public opposition to U.S. policies,'' said Jusuf Wanadi of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta.
Close ties between Moscow and Jakarta are not unprecedented.
Indonesia relied on Soviet military assistance in the 1950s under Megawati's father and founding President Sukarno, but these were severed after the anti-communist Gen. Suharto seized power in 1965.
The United States quickly became the Southeast Asian country's main weapons supplier, and annual arms sales peaked at US$400 million in the 1980s.
In 1991, however, the U.S. Congress banned this after Indonesian troops killed hundreds of civilians in East Timor.
In 1999, East Timor became free, but only after Indonesian forces laid waste to it as they withdrew after a pro-independence referendum.
The shocking level of destruction prompted U.S. lawmakers to expand the ban to cover almost all military ties with Indonesia.
Since then some in the Bush administration -- particularly Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, a former ambassador to Jakarta and a prime architect of the Iraq war -- have pushed for the ban to be repealed.
So far, U.S. lawmakers have reinstated only a limited officer training program.
But that's far from enough for Indonesia's generals.
``I think the Indonesian military has finally decided that restrictions and conditionalities from Washington are just not worth it,'' said Juwono Sudarsono, a former defense minister.
``So they want to look for alternative sources for planes, helicopters and other hardware.''
Moscow has already had some success in wooing Indonesia as a customer.
Jakarta has recently purchased some Russian weapons, including 10,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles, a squadron of naval Mil-2 helicopters and a dozen BTR-80A amphibious carriers for its marines.
Currently, Indonesia uses short-range Rapier missiles purchased 30 years ago to protect its vital oil and natural gas fields in Sumatra, Borneo and Papua from air attack.
``Replenishing them has been a big problem,'' Sudarsono said.
Air defense commanders want to augment the Rapiers with Russia's impressive long-range S-300 missiles, or shorter-range systems such as the SA-15 Gauntlet or shoulder-fired Igla.
The Air Force is reportedly considering purchasing several squadrons of Sukhoi Su-27 interceptors, considered the world's premier dogfighters.
Previously, Indonesian Air Force commanders preferred Western jets that were compatible with the U.S.-made F-16 fighter-bombers already in the Indonesian inventory.
But neighboring Malaysia's success in integrating Russian MiG-29s and American F/A-18 Hornets persuaded them otherwise, Sudarsono said.
If Megawati does stiff-arm the United States on the weapons issue, it is unlikely relations with Washington will be permanently damaged.
Whatever happens, Indonesia, a mainly Muslim but politically secular state, is natural ally in the struggle against terrorism and religious militancy.
What could be more worrying for Washington is Russia's economic ambitions.
Trade between Indonesia and Russia increased by dlrs 36.2 million to dlrs 203.5 million in 2001 -- the last year for which statistics are available.
Analysts say this can only grow.
The real concerns, though, are in the petroleum sector.
Megawati and Putin are expected to sign agreements to give Russian companies a toehold in Indonesia's oil and gas industry, long dominated by American and British giants such as Exxon Mobil and BP.
The lawyer for a Russian military journalist convicted of treason filed an appeal Wednesday in an effort to overturn the guilty verdict against his client, who was released on parole earlier this year, news agencies reported.
He asked the court to invalidate the verdict and throw out the criminal case against Pasko, they said.
Pasko was sentenced to four years in prison in December 2001 for illegally attending a meeting of top military commanders and taking notes there.
A military court said he intended to pass the notes to Japanese media with which he had worked.
Pasko, whose sentence included time served, was released in January for good behavior after serving more than two-thirds of the sentence.
He has maintained his innocence, saying the military was punishing him for exposing environmental abuses by the Russian navy, including the dumping of radioactive waste into the sea.
Reznik said an initial appeal he lodged the day Pasko was freed never reached the presidium of the Supreme Court, according to Interfax.
The lawyer said the court's military board had refused to launch proceedings on the appeal.
Reznik said he addressed the new appeal directly to Supreme Court Chairman Vyacheslav Lebedev and asked that it not be considered by military judges ``because the military justice system has adopted a biased attitude against Pasko,'' Interfax reported.
I was hoping for another incredibly drawn-out story, full of antitrust drama, lurking potential bidders, and contentious confrontations between executives.
And then MCI just sort of accepted a Verizon deal without really bothering anybody.
Clearly, their corporate culture has suffered -- 25 years ago, MCI was the brawling upstart in the telecom industry, constantly challenging AT&T's right to exist, much less to monopolize the phone system.
And now, they're swallowed by Just Another Monolith.
I expected better -- meaner and tougher, sure, but better nonetheless.
Palestinian security forces returned Monday to the positions they held in the Gaza Strip before the outbreak of the 33-month Palestinian uprising as Israel removed all major checkpoints in the coastal territory, a Palestinian security source said.
Police officers took up their positions across the Gaza Strip, enjoying a freedom of movement they have not known since the intifada exploded in September 2000, the source said.
"Palestinian police have taken over all the posts and positions they held before September 28, 2000.
It is the first time they have had freedom of movement with cars and weapons since the start of the intifada," the source said.
The move marked a huge step forward in carrying out the US-backed Middle East "roadmap", which aims to end the months of bloodshed and create a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Following the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the northern town of Beit Hanoun late Sunday, police took up positions there and in the neighbouring town of Beit Lahiya, he said.
They also deployed along the border with Israel.
The handover is a credibility test for the Palestinian Authority, which must show it means business when it comes to reining in hardline groups plotting attacks on the Jewish state.
In another first in the almost three-year intifada, the Israeli army allowed Palestinians free circulation on the trans-Gaza highway as troops abandoned three major checkpoints across the coastal territory.
Traffic was flowing freely through the Netzarim junction, just south of Gaza City, the Kissufim junction by Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip, and the Guest House junction just south of Deir al-Balah after the army withdrew.
The three military checkpoints on the highway, which runs the entire length of the Gaza Strip, had transformed the trip from north to south, ordinarily a 30-minute ride, into a grinding two or three-hour ordeal and came to symbolise the horrors of occupation.
"Israel has implemented most of the agreement except for a few issues," the source said, pointing out that Israel had still not removed two military observation posts at the Kissufim junction and the Guest House junction.
Although there was free movement along the trans-Gaza highway, several other roads remained temporarily closed, he said.
The Karni-Netzarim road, which runs east-to-west across the route, was still closed as was the section of the highway passing close by Kfar Darom settlement, just south of the Guest House junction, he said, adding both were likely to be opened in the coming weeks.
Another road, leading from the southern border town of Rafah to Khan Yunis, would be opened within 10 days, he said.
Adressing Palestinian complaints, an Israeli military source confirmed troops had installed a gate at the Netzarim crossing and at the southern Guest House junction but said that they were only there for when Jewish settlers needed to use the road.
A ban on Palestinian men under the age of 35 being allowed to move freely was still in force but that was expected to be lifted later on Monday or early Tuesday.
The army also handed over control of Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt to the Palestinians, security sources said.
Six Palestinian police officers were allowed to return to the Palestinian section of the border crossing, which had been taken over by Israeli troops shortly after the start of the uprising.
Under the 1993 Oslo accords, which granted a measure of autonomy to the Palestinians, the Rafah border crossing with Egypt was to be jointly managed by both Israel and the Palestinians, although Israel had final control over the zone.
Although the crossing has, in principle, been open for movement between the two territories -- while being frequently closed by Israeli for reasons rarely explained -- the Palestinian section has been manned by Israel for more than two years.
Fifteen people were killed and more than 30 wounded Wednesday as a suicide bomber blew himself up on a student bus in the northern town of Haifa, the first bombing in Israel in exactly two months.
Several hours later, dozens of Israeli tanks advanced into the northern Gaza Strip backed by helicopters which fired at least three rockets in the Jabaliya area, Palestinian security sources said.
Palestinian medical sources said 60-year-old Mohammed al-Biyari was killed in his home near Jabaliya refugee camp by the rocket fire and another wounded.
A second rocket landed in farmlands and the other hit a house inside the refugee camp, but without causing further casualties, Palestinian security sources said.
Two 13-year-old children were among those killed in the Haifa bus bombing, Israeli public radio said, adding that most of the victims were youngsters.
The army said two soldiers were also among the dead.
The bus was ripped to shreds while travelling between a residential area and Haifa university.
Of the 33 injured still in hospital late Wednesday, two were in intensive care and six others in serious condition, the radio said.
Israel's night-time raid in Gaza involving around 40 tanks and armoured vehicles came after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon convened his security cabinet to discuss a response to the bomb attack.
Israeli media said the retaliation was unlikely to be on a scale that would risk disrupting US preparations for war on Iraq.
The Palestinian suicide bomber on the Haifa bus came from the southern West Bank town of Hebron, public radio said, naming him as 20-year-old Mahmoud Hamadan Salim Qawasmi.
Apart from his ID card, also found in the wreckage were the remains of a letter allegedly outlining his plan to carry out a suicide attack and praising the September 2001 destruction of the World Trade Centre in New York, it said.
Israeli police were not immediately available for comment, but Palestinian sources in Hebron said Mahmoud Qawasmi was a 21-year-old student with links to the Islamic radical group Hamas.
Israeli forces moved into Hebron's Al-Sheikh district where his family lived and arrested Qawasmi's brother and father after the bombing, they said.
Without claiming responsibility, Hamas and another hardline group, Islamic Jihad, said the blast was revenge for a string of bloody Israeli army raids into the Gaza Strip in recent weeks.
But the Palestinian Authority condemned the attack, saying it would divert international sympathy away from the far higher Palestinian civilian death toll.
"We condemn all attacks against civilians including today's attack in Haifa," said information minister Yasser Abed Rabbo.
The Palestinian leadership said the attack would serve as "a pretext for Israel's government and occupation army to step up its deadly campaign which caused the deaths of 77 Palestinians in February".
It was the first bomb attack inside Israel since January 5, and came just days after the hawkish Sharon appointed the most right-wing government in Israel's history on a pledge to get tough on security.
In the January attack, two Palestinian suicide bombers blew themselves up in central Tel Aviv, killing 23 other people.
Israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner called the latest deadly blast a "very grave attack" and said the Jewish state would take "vigorous action against the terrorist organisations".
He told AFP that Israeli intelligence had been dealing with at least 40 tip-offs of impending attacks when the Haifa bus was blown up.
US President George W. Bush condemned the "attack on innocents in Israel," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said, adding that "his message to the terrorists is: Their efforts will not be succcessful.
"He will continue to pursue the path to peace in the Middle East."
EU foreign policy supremo Javier Solana likewise slammed the attack, although he also took a jab at Israel, saying, "There have been too many civilians killed in the last weeks and the last days."
In London, a spokesman for the British prime minister said Tony Blair "condemns absolutely what has happened".
The spokesman added that he "would obviously call on all sides to do what they can to break the cycle of violence, because it is only through engagement that we can realise the vision everyone wants to see.
"There needs to be dialogue in order for this to be resolved."
The bus attack came just two days after Israeli forces staged a bloody raid into a refugee camp in central Gaza targeting a founding member of Hamas, which has spearheaded suicide bombings against the Jewish state.
Hamas vowed to continue its attacks, while the Palestinian Authority accused Israel of trying to disrupt top-level Palestinian meetings to discuss reforms of Arafat's administration.
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat said international intervention was needed to break the cycle of violence.
Eight people, including a pregnant woman and a 13-year-old child were killed in Monday's Gaza raid, provoking US-led international calls for Israeli restraint.
And on Tuesday, Israeli troops shot dead an elderly Palestinian shepherd outside a Jewish settlement on the edge of Gaza City.
In the West Bank, an eight-year-old Palestinian boy as well as his brother and a sister were wounded late Wednesday by Israeli gunfire in a village north of the town of Ramallah, their elder sister said.
Israeli troops shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian boy and critically injured two children, ages 7 and 9, during conflicts in the West Bank that erupted Tuesday as Israeli and Palestinian leaders moved toward talks on a new Mideast peace plan.
The shootings -- which the Israeli army said came in response to attacks by Palestinians throwing stones and molotov cocktails -- came a day after Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared that Israel's occupation in the West Bank must end, stunning both dovish opponents and hardline allies.
Sharon's remarks and Israel's conditional acceptance Sunday of the so-called ``road map'' to peace were expected to jump-start stalled Mideast peace negotiations.
A summit between Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart, Mahmoud Abbas, had been planned for Wednesday but was postponed, according to Israeli and Palestinian officials, who blamed each other for the delay.
The officials said no new date had been set; Israel Radio said the meeting would take place Thursday.
A three-way summit with U.S. President George W. Bush could take place as early as next week, possibly in Jordan.
Israeli soldiers shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian boy and wounded a 7-year-old boy after opening fire at stone throwers in the Tulkarem refugee camp in the West Bank on Tuesday, Palestinian hospital officials said.
The army said troops fired, and hit a boy, after a Palestinian youth threw a molotov cocktail.
In a village near the West Bank city of Nablus on Tuesday, Israeli troops opened fire on youths throwing stones, hitting a 9-year-old Palestinian boy in the head and critically wounding him, and hitting two 12-year-old boys in the legs, lightly wounding them, Palestinian hospital officials said.
A 10-year-old boy was struck in the leg by a rubber bullet, but was not seriously hurt, the officials said.
Military sources said troops were trying to break up stone-throwing protests, but did not use live fire.
The army was not aware of any injuries.
Five Palestinian children, a Palestinian woman and a police officer, were injured Tuesday after accidentally detonating explosives in the West Bank city of Hebron, Palestinian security officials said.
The children found the explosives in two plastic bags under a tree and accidentally detonated the first bag.
After a police officer arrived, the second bag exploded, seriously injuring him, the officials said.
Israeli troops killed a Palestinian teenager Monday and another surrendered after infiltrating from Gaza, the military said.
They were unarmed and apparently looking for work.
In a village near the West Bank town of Qalqiliya, an 11-year-old Palestinian boy was killed during an exchange of gunfire.
Also Monday, Israeli soldiers fired on four diplomatic vehicles in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun, diplomats said.
There were no injuries from the incident.
Peter Lundberg, an official from the Swedish Consulate in Jerusalem, said that two bullets hit the windshield of the Swiss Consulate's armored car, and that small-arms fire also was directed at other cars from Sweden, Denmark and the European Union.
Military sources said the Israeli army had established roadblocks at the entrance to Beit Hanoun to prevent Palestinians militants from leaving the area.
The sources said shots had been fired in the air when vehicles tried to skirt the roadblocks.
The violence erupted after Sharon endured withering criticism Monday from members of his own Likud Party over his Cabinet's acceptance of the U.S.-backed ``road map'' peace plan.
Sharon indicated a 180-degree turnaround after decades of warning that an Israeli withdrawal from even small parts of the West Bank could endanger Israel's existence.
Skeptics, however, wondered whether Sharon's conversion was a shrewd effort to deflect U.S. pressure in the hopes the road map would fail before Israel had to make tough concessions.
``To keep 3.5 million people under occupation is bad for us and them,'' Sharon said in remarks broadcast on Israel Radio.
The term ``occupation'' is anathema to the Israeli right, which believes Israel has a legitimate claim to the West Bank and Gaza Strip for religious and security reasons.
Palestinians and their dovish Israeli allies routinely use the word ``occupation'' when demanding that Israel leave the West Bank and Gaza and dismantle Jewish settlements.
Palestinians claim all of the West Bank and Gaza for a state.
On Sunday, Sharon's Cabinet conditionally approved the ``road map,'' a three-phase plan that begins with a halt to violence and envisages a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 2005.
Sharon told party critics he was committed to finding a political solution to the conflict, including an Israeli withdrawal from West Bank population centers.
``This can't continue endlessly.
Do you want to remain forever in Ramallah, Jenin, Nablus?'' he asked.
Likud lawmakers charged that the road map was slanted in favor of the Palestinians and endangers Israel.
In his remarks Monday, Sharon left himself an out.
``What will happen if Palestinian terror continues?
Nothing.
Nothing will happen.
The Palestinians will get nothing,'' he said.
Critics have said Sharon's long-held condition that all violence must stop before peace moves is unrealistic and guarantees failure of any peace initiative, including the road map, thus releasing him from the necessity of following through on his remarks.
Liberal lawmaker Yossi Sarid argued Sharon was trying to keep his intentions murky to persuade the U.S. government that he was committed to the plan, while his hawkish allies could assume he was just making a tactical move to end U.S. pressure.
``Ariel Sharon likes to walk in the fog, because then no one knows where he is headed,'' Sarid wrote in the Yediot Ahronot daily.
A court in Moscow has convicted American businessman Edmund Pope of spying and sentenced him to 20 years in prison.
Pope, a retired naval officer from Pennsylvania, was accused of illegally obtaining secret blueprints for a high speed Russian torpedo.
He argued throughout the case that the information he obtained was already available to the public.
The White House denounced the court action calling it unjustified and wrong.
Pope's wife and his lawyers have also called for his release on health grounds, saying that he suffers from a rare form of bone cancer, which may have returned during his eight months in a Russian prison.
Corey Flintoff, NPR News, Washington.
U.S. and British troops were moving on the strategic southern port city of Basra Saturday after a massive aerial assault pounded Baghdad at dawn.
Thousands of beleaguered Iraqi soldiers in the south surrendered in the face of the major push.
The battle for Basra, an oil hub of some 1.3 million people, was underway by midday, with coalition troops trying to surround Iraqi positions and force a surrender.
U.S. aircraft bombed Iraqi tanks holding bridges close to the city.
Iraqi forces responded with artillery fire.
Earlier Saturday, Baghdad was again targeted, one day after a massive U.S. aerial bombardment in which more than 300 Tomahawk cruise missiles rained down on the capital.
The nine-story Security Headquarters in the Iraqi capital took a direct hit, strewing bricks, masonry and glass across the street in the al-Salhiya neighborhood of central Baghdad.
As coalition troops advanced, an entire Iraqi army division gave itself up, U.S. military officials said.
The division -- the 51st Infantry Division, with 8,000 men and as many as 200 tanks, a key unit in the defense of Basra -- was the largest defection in a day when Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's forces showed signs of crumbling.
Allied successes were marred by the collision of two Royal Navy helicopters over the Persian Gulf in which all six British crew members and one American were killed.
Saturday morning, American Marines and British troops rumbled along the main road from the Kuwaiti border to Basra, Highway 80, nicknamed the ``Highway of Death'' during the 1991 Gulf War, when U.S. airstrikes wiped out an Iraqi military convoy along it.
American units advancing west of Basra have already secured the Rumeila oil field, whose daily output of 1.3 million barrels makes it Iraq's most productive.
Until Basra, U.S. and British troops had encountered little resistance, even when they seized nearby Umm Qasr, and moved to secure key oil fields.
Iraqis mostly fought back with small arms, pistols, machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades.
Regular Iraqi forces had withdrawn from Basra but elements of Saddam's security forces are continuing to resist, British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said Saturday.
Other units moved into airfield complexes in western Iraq believed to have Scud missiles capable of reaching Israel, and possibly weapons of mass destruction.
Early Saturday, more units were waiting in Kuwait to smash through any Iraqi resistance.
Hundreds of tanks, armored personnel carriers, Humvees and trucks were lined up in parallel columns waiting in single-file to cross the Iraqi-Kuwait border.
By early next week, U.S. ground forces led by the Army's 3rd Infantry Division are likely to be at the outskirts of Baghdad, where they could face greater danger from the Republican Guard, some commanders said.
After weeks of delay, Turkey relented and agreed to let combat aircraft fly over its territory.
At the same time, however, Turkey sent 1,000 troops into northern Iraq, and the government said it would send more to prevent Iraqi Kurds from creating an independent state.
The United States strongly opposes any unilateral move by Turkey into northern Iraq.
A Turkish military spokesman on Saturday denied Turkish troops had crossed into Iraq.
The United States and Britain suffered their first casualties Thursday and Friday as they pushed into Iraq, with two U.S. Marines killed in combat and another eight British and four American Marines dying in a helicopter crash that appeared to be accidental.
There was no clear figure of Iraqi casualties.
Australian commandos, who have been operating deep in Iraq, destroyed a command and control post and killed a number of soldiers, according to the country's defense chief, Gen. Peter Cosgrove.
In an address Saturday, Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf told Iraqis that fighting had been ``fierce.''
He said most of those captured by allied forces were civilians, not soldiers.
He claimed Iraqi troops had destroyed five tanks.
He said more than 200 Iraqis had been injured, including women, children and other civilians who were being treated at five hospitals in Baghdad.
Hoon said Saddam's regime was crumbling under the pressure of a huge air assault.
``As last night's dramatic television coverage showed, the lights stayed on in Baghdad, but the instruments of tyranny are collapsing,'' he said.
Iraqi Vice President Taha Yasin Ramadan, speaking on Iraqi Radio, was quoted by the British Broadcasting Corp.'s monitoring service as accusing Britain and the United States of working to ``eliminate'' the state of Iraq.
In a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, Ramadan said, ``It is also regrettable and deplorable that the (U.N.) General Secretariat has not issued any statement or reaction that condemns or deplores this aggression.''
Despite the heavy bombing, which the U.S. Central Command said targeted military command and control installations, the Iraqi regime gave no sign of quitting.
Bombers have also hit targets in the northern cities of Mosul, Kirkuk and Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
The Iraqi government released a video of Saddam, in uniform, meeting with his son Qusai, the commander of the Republican Guard, and the defense minister, Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmad.
It was unclear when the video was made.
U.S. intelligence officials said the Iraqi command and control system was in disarray, and U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said, ``The regime is starting to lose control of their country.''
Colombia's second largest Marxist rebel army has released forty-two soldiers and police officers.
Government officials say the National Liberation Army freed the captives today in Northern Colombia.
The forty-two prisoners were captured two years ago during clashes with the guerilla group.
We don't know who is winning the drug war in Latin America, but we know who's losing it -- the press.
Over the past six months, six journalists have been killed and 10 kidnapped by drug traffickers or leftist guerrillas -- who often are one and the same -- in Colombia.
Over the past 12 years, at least 40 journalists have died there.
The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country.
The slaughter in Colombia was very much on the minds of 450 editors and publishers from Latin America, the United States, the Caribbean and Canada attending the 45th general assembly of the Inter-American Press Association in Monterrey, Mexico, this week.
On Tuesday the conference got word of another atrocity, the assassination in Medellin of two employees of El Espectador, Colombia's second-largest newspaper.
The paper's local administrator, Maria Luz Lopez, was shot dead, and her mother wounded, while her car was stopped for a red light.
An hour later, the paper's circulation manager, Miguel Soler, was shot and killed near his home.
The drug lords who claimed responsibility said they would blow up the Bogota newspaper's offices if it continued to distribute in Medellin.
They bombed the Bogota offices last month, destroying its computer and causing $2.5 million in damage.
El Espectador has been a special target because of the extraordinary courage of its publisher and his staff.
At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: "We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking.
They want to terrify the press and in particular El Espectador because it has always been a torchbearer in this war..
This comes from a man whose brother, Guillermo, was murdered in 1986.
The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions.
Many will use a common editorial.
A final statement yesterday said: "While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination..
The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before.
"Noriega has closed every independent newspaper, radio and television station and arrested, tortured or forced into exile a long list of reporters," the statement declared.
It added: "In Cuba, public enemy No. 1 of press freedoms in the hemisphere, repression of journalists both Cuban and foreign is worse than ever..
And in Nicaragua, promises of press freedom by the Sandinistas "have not materialized..
As it happens, the four countries cited, Colombia, Cuba, Panama and Nicaragua, are not only where the press is under greatest attack but also are linked by the drug trade and left-wing politics.
Noriega is close to Castro and may once have been his agent.
Sandinistas Thomas Borge and the Ortega brothers are Castro proteges; he backed their takeover of Nicaragua.
In Colombia, the drug-financed guerrillas trying to seize the country and destroy democracy include M-19, which Castro has clearly backed.
Robert Merkel, a former U.S. attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel.
"If the cartel succeeds in blackmailing the Colombian authorities into negotiations, the cartel will be in control and Fidel can exploit his past relationships with them," he told the Journal's David Asman recently.
The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing.
This week, the government arrested Jose Abello Silva, said to be the fourth-ranking cartel leader.
He will probably be extradited to the U.S. for trial under an extradition treaty President Virgilia Barco has revived.
Later, another high-ranking trafficker, Leonidas Vargas, was arrested and 1,000 pounds of dynamite seized.
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.
President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.
It might not be a bad idea to do that sooner, rather than later.
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance.
Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that.
Beginning early next year, visitors to Yosemite National Park in California will see some changes.
A new plan is aimed at protecting the giant Sequoia trees, scenic valleys, and waterfalls from the impact of four million tourists a year.
Under the new plan, visitors will have very limited access to the park by car.
The 343 million-dollar plan will create a new shuttle bus system to alleviate traffic congestion.
It will also remove roads from meadows, create more hiking trails, and restore campsites damaged by a 1997 flood.
Yosemite spokesman Scott Gediman says while these measures have been controversial, the preservation effort will not sacrifice visitor enjoyment.
And so we certainly do not want to limit access or will not limit access to the National Park, but we need to design the facilities, design parking areas, design the infrastructure in a way that we can handle these large amounts of people.
Yosemite is not alone in seeking new management strategies to preserve natural areas.
Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona is putting in a light rail system.
And Zion National Park in Utah has just established a new shuttle bus system.
With environment briefs, I'm Roseanne Skirble.
This is The World.
I am Lisa Mullins.
Putting aside a half century of acrimony, Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright met today with North Korea's leader Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang.
Part of the purpose of this historic visit is to lay the groundwork for a possible trip to North Korea by President Clinton before his term ends.
Albright's visit to Pyongyang is the first by a high level US official since the communist state was established in 1948.
Kong Dan Oh is a Korean expert who has just written a book called 'North Korea through the Looking Glass'.
She is now in the South Korean capital of Seoul.
We know that the visit is making big news there in Seoul.
Can you tell us what is being reported about the meeting between the two sides from the South Korean perspective.
Well, when I look at about six major daily newspapers, basically the top news was Madeleine Albright meeting with the Chairman Kim Jong Il.
And basically that indeed this is a very historic event, and some kind of euphoria and very positive upbeat feeling.
But at the same time, the reports are basically telling the importance of this meeting that is that they have to talk about the very critical security matter issues such as missile and nuke.
But nonetheless, the meeting was very crucial, so I think all in all, it was a very positive beginning.
And how much of South Korea as you mentioned is bordering on euphoria, get this new relationship with Pyongyang and at the visit by Secretary of State Albright.
I know that you have taken a more cautious approach, and I wonder if that applies to Secretary Albright's visit in general.
Do you believe that the US is doing the right thing.
Or is perhaps the United States, in your view, moving too quickly to try and patch things up.
I am kind of taking a slightly cautious approach, simply because if Madam Albright is there, without the really thinking down the road some kind of strategic consequences of this meeting, simply because we are interested in seeing this gentleman and maybe before our term is over, let me meet you.
I think that kind of simple approach to be wrong.
But if she understands importance of this meeting and further brings up substance of issue to be resolved between the North Korea and the United States, I think that is very desirable.
What you're saying is that you feel that the part of the impetus of the North is influenced by the fact that the United States has a presidential election just a couple of weeks away.
I think that is a definitely correct statement, provided that maybe the Republican candidate, Mr. Bush to be elected.
North Korea was very, very scared that Mr. Bush would take a much more hawkish and conservative approach.
So before this Clinton administration comes to be over, they would like to lay down the ground rules and kind of create some kind of positive improvement to deal with the United States.
And obviously one of the most important agendas for tomorrow is to discuss the possibilities of President Clinton's next visit sometime in November.
I know that you have concerns about how a potential visit by President Clinton might be portrayed within North Korea itself.
Why is that a concern of yours.
My fundamental belief is that Kim Jong Il has not really made his mind or made a decision to push the reforms, even in the session of 1978 Chinese reform that was taken by Deng Xiaoping.
He is now gambling, he is trying, but he has not really changed his manner or his policy whatsoever.
His economy and his society's politics is really getting in real deep trouble.
He has to show his power and he's been telling his people that I am the true leader and the world is afraid of us.
All the imperialist capitalist is afraid of us.
That we are the center of the universe.
Without the North Korea, the globe is not existing.
Let me show you that I am the true leader and they will come to our country to pay visit, courtesy visit for me.
And so now Putin visited, President Kim visited, Jiang Zemin will visit next year and the President Clinton will go.
Domestic consumption of this visit will be immense, without changing any policy toward the freedom of proliferation  .
Is it really possible with the kind of close watch that the outside world is now going to be invited to give to North Korea, that Kim Jong Il could actually not change a thing in terms of his policies, internally or externally.
I am exactly wondering like you, and I think that there is a maybe the possibility actually is going up.
So I don't object really any of these like U.K. normalization, you know.
I don't have any objection.
But only when the leaders and the elite, the policy elite, is aware of that what they are bringing and what they are negotiating and how they would like to have an impact on North Korean society, I think that's the important key question.
Kong Dan Oh is the author of the book 'North Korea through the Looking Glass', speaking to us from Seoul, South Korea.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants; their herds are thriving.
But the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better.
At this week's U.N. conference in Lausanne, they imposed a global ivory ban that seeks to overturn local policies.
A Zimbabwean delegate argued that the ban would "guarantee the extinction of the elephant..
Legitimate ranchers, who have an interest in preserving the herds, would go out of business.
Poachers would control the underground trade.
Many delegates were willing to craft a compromise, but U.S. delegate Constance Harriman and others thundered that down.
The Greens from the First World wanted a morality play, not a negotiation.
Fortunately, the nations of southern Africa haven't totally surrendered their sovereignty.
Five countries announced they would not honor what one Zimbabwean delegate wryly called the "made in Switzerland" solution.
In fact, they seemed a mite resentful.
The director of Zimbabwe's Wildlife Department described American conservationists as "fat little puppies from urban environments who don't know a thing about Africa..
That's not fair; they're not all fat.
I wish I could have been at a Pub, or wherever these people convene, to see the reactions from all the Britons who read the Telegraph this morning (emphasis added): Britain's gun laws are aimed at the wrong target, curbing and criminalising legal ownership while failing to tackle huge rises in shooting offences over the past few years, according to an international firearms legislation expert.
Prof Gary Mauser said that Britain was making the same mistake as Canada and Australia in focusing on legal owners - a section of the law-abiding community where gun crimes, such as the Dunblane massacre, were aberrations.
The Home Office and police chiefs should instead tackle the possession of guns in criminal hands, said Prof Mauser, a member of the independent Fraser Institute in Canada.
He has given evidence to select committees of the House of Commons and the Canadian Senate and predicted the escalation of gun crime on Britain's streets.
His warning comes as gun crime incidents are averaging about 29 a day in England and Wales, more than twice the level of when the Labour Government came to power in 1997 .
In the past two years, there have been cases of schoolchildren and a baby, killed or injured by guns.
"I believe that factors of political correctness are at work," he said.
"Police crackdowns, Home Office initiatives and over-regulation of legally held weapons create froth and they may even fool the police themselves into believing they are doing something about gun crime."
Prof Mauser added: "The sad truth is that while the police officers are inspecting farmers' gun cabinets to see if they comply with regulations somewhere in the UK, someone, who has not filled in a firearms certificate form, will be smuggling a gun into the country or selling one to an inner city youth."
Recorded gun crime rose by three per cent to 10,590 incidents in the year to June.
Two-thirds of gun crime takes place in London, Birmingham and Manchester.
It doesn't matter to these people that crime has skyrocketed since the irrational ban on private gun possession went into effect in Great Britain.
Just as long as it's there, they feel safe.
Gazprom, the main Russian gas company, has been denied a $10 billion credit line due to the political situation in Russia.
The company intended to use the cash to pay an artificially low price for Yukos assets (hence that firm's bankruptcy filing a few days ago -- you know it's bad when you have to use US courts to protect your own assets from appropriation by your home country).
It's starting to look like Putin's goal is a sort of judicial nationalization -- taking control of key assets through court, rather than executive, fiat.
But the markets have caught on, and Russia may be deprived of the capital it needs to grow.
Don't expect any of the Russian leadership to reverse course; given the current trends there, they'll just Blame the West when their screwy plan screws them over.
A frozen mountaintop in Tibet may offer an important clue about whether the Earth is warming perilously.
Researchers at Ohio State University and Lanzhou Institute of Glaciology and Geocryology in China have analyzed samples of glacial ice in Tibet and say temperatures there have been significantly higher on average over the past half-century than in any similar period in the past 10,000 years.
The ice samples are an important piece of evidence supporting theories that the Earth has warmed considerably in recent times, largely because of pollutants in the air, and will warm far more in the century ahead.
A substantial warming would melt some of the Earth's polar ice caps, raising the level of the oceans and causing widespread flooding of heavily populated coastal areas.
"If you can use data to reconstruct what happened in the past, you have much more confidence in predictions for the future," said Lonnie Thompson, a research scientist at Ohio State who dug for and analyzed the ice samples.
To compare temperatures over the past 10,000 years, researchers analyzed the changes in concentrations of two forms of oxygen.
These measurements can indicate temperature changes, researchers said, because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change.
Analysis of ice from the Dunde ice cap, a glacial plateau in Tibet 17,000 feet above sea level, show that average temperatures were higher in 1937-87 than in any other 50-year period since before the last Ice Age, Mr. Thompson said.
Some climate models project that interior regions of Asia would be among the first to heat up in a global warming because they are far from oceans, which moderate temperature changes.
But the ice-core samples aren't definitive proof that the so-called greenhouse effect will lead to further substantial global heating, Mr. Thompson acknowledged.
According to greenhouse theories, increased carbon dioxide emissions, largely caused by burning of fossil fuels, will cause the Earth to warm up because carbon dioxide prevents heat from escaping into space.
Skeptics say that if that's the case, temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century, reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide.
Instead, the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s, decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s, then higher temperatures again through last year.
Other temperature data show similar unexplained swings.
"Climate varies drastically due to natural causes," said Mr. Thompson.
But he said ice samples from Peru, Greenland and Antarctica all show substantial signs of warming.
As the leading candidate for president of his country in next year's election, Mario Vargas Llosa ought to be in an enviable position.
But his country is Peru, where political visibility, especially for a believer in democracy and free enterprise -- a right winger in Latin American eyes -- makes a man a target for assassination.
For almost any Peruvian these days, to show an interest in public office is a heroic gesture; for Mr. Vargas Llosa especially so, since he already has achieved a high position in the world's eyes as a writer.
Published everywhere to universal acclaim, doted on like a movie star in the Hispanic world from Barcelona to Ushuaia, Mr. Vargas Llosa could live comfortably on his royalties and console his political conscience with the thought that Peru is a hopeless mess not of his making and that he already did his best to reform it with his magnificently cinematic novel about the years of military dictatorship of his youth, "Conversation in the Cathedral..
But, after some hesitation, he is back on the stump and also still writing important novels about Peru.
"The Storyteller" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 246 pages, $17.95), splendidly translated by Helen Lane, first appeared in Spanish in 1987 before the Peruvian economy had reached its present state of virtual collapse.
And in any case the story takes place a bit earlier than that, when the guerrilla war in the highlands had not yet made internal travel a gamble with destiny.
Even still, the very first sentence of this fable that weaves together Peru's most advanced and most primitive cultural strands speaks of "my unfortunate country..
The narrator may be talking about the depredations of the Shining Path Maoists among the Indians of the Andes, or he may be referring to the plunging inti, Peru's rubber currency, or the corrupting effect of the cocaine trade.
But he is swiftly drawn into a tangle of memories about a less newsworthy and more exotic part of Peru: its corner of the Amazon jungle.
This narrator is a foil for Mr. Vargas Llosa, a cosmopolitan writer with one well-tailored leg in journalism.
He is in Florence to shake himself free of Peru and get some writing done, just as Mr. Vargas Llosa has gone to Paris and now goes frequently to London for the same purpose.
But this narrator happens upon some photographs in a gallery, pictures taken in Peruvian Amazonia of the untamed and nomadic Machiguenga tribe.
And they remind him of his own experiences with that unhappy scattered culture and of his friend at Lima's University of San Marcos, Saul Zuratas.
Saul was a high-strung student of ethnography, a Jew marked doubly as an outsider because of a huge wine-dark birthmark on his face, for which people called him Mascarita, Mask Face.
Saul knew about the Machiguengas from his studies, and through him the narrator became interested in this most recalcitrant and un-Westernizable of all the indigenous peoples who had come under the Spanish yoke.
Saul, meanwhile, came to believe that anthropology, even at its most benign, was as insidious a form of cultural imperialism as the superficially more blatant activities of Christian missionaries.
Saul mysteriously disappears.
This is what we know at the end of the opening section of "The Storyteller..
The next voice we hear sounds like this: "There was no evil, there was no wind, there was no rain.
The women bore pure children.
If Tasurinchi wanted to eat, he dipped his hand into the river and brought out a shad flicking its tail . . ..
And this: "Moving, walking.
Keeping on, with or without rain, by land or by water, climbing up the mountain slopes or climbing down the ravines..
The speaker is never identified.
He tells his stories in his majestically simple way, in a "language" all his own.
There are creation myths and cosmologies and hunting stories -- a whole culture is contained within these dreamy narratives.
It is as though Mr. Vargas Llosa had recorded a storytelling session at a Machiguenga campfire.
And this is just the effect he hopes to have on the reader, as he alternates chapters in his "own" voice with chapters somehow "borrowed" from the Machiguenga storyteller.
For most of the book, there is no direct connection between its urban and its Amazonian modes.
But the contrast between them becomes a living thing through the brilliant contrast of narrative styles that Mr. Vargas Llosa creates.
He controls this counterpoint like a novelistic Bach, reaching an audacious extreme in a hilarious chapter in which the "Vargas Llosa" voice relates his adventures as an inept television newsman.
But the joke turns serious when a reportage takes him to Amazonia and he encounters the missionaries who know more than anyone else about the Machiguengas.
By this point, the narrator has become obsessed with finding out about the Machiguenga storytellers, who, he had heard years before, functioned like cultural glue for a tribe split into many small bands in constant motion through the jungle.
The storytellers traveled among the bands, reminding them of their identity.
But why would no Machiguenga the narrator meets during his reportage even admit that there were storytellers.
The narrator eventually deduces the extraordinary answer, which is confirmed in a literally Kafkaesque manner by a storyteller in the next chapter.
I am trying to give away as little as possible, but this is not really a mystery or some kind of jungle thriller.
It will be read for the brilliant clash of styles of narration and the even more brilliant way that they have been tied together into a large metaphor for literature and its function in society.
More than 50 people are dead in Nigeria, after a leaking oil pipeline burst into flames outside the commercial capital, Lagos.
The blast and resulting fire Thursday, ripped through an area near a fuel-loading depot owned by the state-run Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation.
Witnesses report seeing burnt bodies littering the charred grounds while many other victims are being treated for injuries sustained in the blaze.
A spokeswoman for the Petroleum Company says the fire was caused by vandals.
Ivory Coast's army has pledged its loyalty to opposition candidate Loran Gbagbo.
The pledge followed a tumultuous 24 hours that ended the rule of the junta, which seized power last December.
Soldiers and civilians took to the streets to celebrate the departure of junta leader General Robert Guei.
In an address on state television, Wednesday, Mr. Gbagbo, leader of the Ivorian Socialist party, said he would be forming a cabinet shortly.
A U.S. businessman accused of spying says he has no chance of getting a fair trial in Russia.
Edmond Pope appeared in a Moscow courtroom today and read from a 40-page statement, denying charges of espionage, and protesting his treatment by the court.
Russian prosecutors say Pope tried to buy secret blueprints for a high-speed torpedo used by the Russian military.
Pope's supporters say he was seeking information on an old Russian underwater propulsion system.
Slobodan Milosevic's wife will go on trial next week on charges of mismanaging state property during the former president's rule, a court said Thursday.
Mirjana Markovic, the power behind the scenes during Milosevic's 13-year reign, is accused of illegally providing their grandson's nanny with a state-owned luxury apartment in Belgrade in 2000.
The Belgrade district court said that Markovic will be tried along with 10 other Milosevic-era officials who face similar charges of ``inappropriate use of state property'' that carry a sentence of up to five years in jail.
The trial will start on March 13, the court said.
Milosevic and his wife wielded enormous power in Yugoslavia for more than a decade before he was swept out of power after a popular revolt in October 2000.
The post-Milosevic government later extradited him to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands.
Since then, many of Milosevic's political and business allies as well as his two children have been accused of crimes.
Markovic, the leader of the neo-communist Yugoslav Left party, lost her parliamentary immunity from prosecution after she failed to become a deputy in the parliament of Serbia and Montenegro, the country that last month succeeded Yugoslavia.
North Korea's military may have fired a laser at a U.S. helicopter in March, a U.S. official said Tuesday, as the communist state ditched its last legal obligation to keep itself free of nuclear weapons.
The aircraft's censors detected the unknown type of laser while it was flying near the heavily fortified frontier that divides the two Koreas, the U.S. military official said on condition of anonymity.
No one was injured and no equipment was damaged in the incident.
North Korea said Tuesday that a 1992 agreement with South Korea not to deploy nuclear arms on the Korean Peninsula was nullified, accusing the United States of derailing the deal.
``The inter-Korean declaration on denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula was thus reduced to a dead document due to the U.S. vicious hostile policy to stifle the DPRK with nukes,'' said the North's official news agency, KCNA.
DPRK stands for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the North's official name.
The announcement came as U.S. President George W. Bush and South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun were about to meet Wednesday in Washington to discuss North Korea's nuclear programs.
The accord was the last remaining legal obligation under which North Korea was banned from developing atomic arms.
In January this year, North Korea withdrew from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a global accord to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
A U.S. military official in Seoul, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday North Korea is believed to have exported US$580 million worth of missiles to Iran, Pakistan, Libya, Syria, Egypt, Yemen and the United Arab Emirates in 2001.
In December, a shipment of North Korean missiles bound for Yemen was briefly stopped in the Arabian Sea.
North Korea accuses the United States of planning to attack the communist country, which Bush has branded part of an ``axis of evil'' along with Iran and Iraq.
It also revived its claim that the U.S. military keeps many nuclear weapons in South Korea, turning the country into ``the biggest nuclear advance base in the Far East.''
Washington says it wants to use dialogue to resolve the nuclear crisis, although U.S. officials have not ruled out a military option.
North Korea ``keenly felt that the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula would only remain as a daydream unless the U.S. drops its hostile policy toward the DPRK,'' KCNA said.
It said the U.S. invasion of Iraq taught it that ``a war can be averted and the sovereignty of the country and the security of the nation can be protected only when a country has ... a strong military deterrent force capable of decisively repelling any attack to be made by any types of sophisticated weapons.''
In New York, South Korean President Roh said he will never condone North Korea's nuclear development, but Seoul and Washington agree the nuclear standoff with the North must be solved peacefully ``by all means.''
``It is incumbent upon Pyongyang to give up its nuclear project and come forward as a responsible member of the international community,'' he said.
``When the North takes this route, the Republic of Korea and the international community will extend the necessary support and cooperation.''
Julianne Lee, a Roh spokeswoman, said the North Korean statement might be a negotiating ploy in the wake of talks last month with U.S. officials in Beijing.
During the talks in Beijing, U.S. officials said North Korea claimed it already possesses nuclear weapons, and that it had reprocessed 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods -- a move that could yield several atomic bombs within months.
North Korea offered to drop its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for security guarantees and economic aid, according to U.S. officials.
The nuclear crisis flared in October, when Washington said North Korea admitted having a secret nuclear program in violation of a 1994 treaty with Washington.
Many people in North America will be able to experience a partial solar eclipse tomorrow.
But scientists say it won't block much Christmas sunlight in most places.
As always, eclipse fans are being warned not to look directly at the Sun because that can cause permanent eye damage.
The eclipse will occur at around 12 P.M. Eastern Time.
The best view will be in the Northeast.
An Oregon girl missing for 15 years has been reunited with her family.
The mother says her daughter was taken by her baby-sitter when she was just 3 years old.
The alleged abduction of Fallon Marie Hodges was never reported to police.
Authorities say the girl contacted law enforcement in Nevada last Friday saying she needed help in finding her identity.
She says she was abandoned by her surrogate parents, one of whom was her alleged kidnapper.
Britain's going to establish diplomatic relations with North Korea.
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook made the announcement on his arrival in the South Korean capital, Seoul.
But Cook says establishing ties with North Korea doesn't mean London will turn a blind eye to human rights abuses in the country.
We have diplomatic relations around the world, we are going to find out who is a human rights breaker, we have very deep and very real concerns.
The advantage of having diplomatic relations is that we can have a direct dialogue in which we can raise these concerns and express our deep anxiety for the need of improvement in them.
Cook says the South Korean leadership is keen on international help in bringing its northern neighbor in from the cold.
Britain said today that it is normalizing relations with North Korea.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair called the decision a historic breakthrough.
It comes  just days ahead of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's trip to the North Korean capital Pyongyang.
Britain's foreign minister Robin Cook, who made the announcement, said opening diplomatic links could help ease tensions between North and South Korea, technically the two countries are still at war.
Germany said today that it also plans to normalize relations with Pyongyang.
Selig Harrison is a Korean affairs specialist at the Century Foundation in Washington DC.
Mr. Harrison, Britain, Italy, prior to that Australia, the Philippines now and apparently Germany all bringing the most secretive state into the fold.
How about the United States, where does that leave us.
Well, I think President Clinton will get some good political cover.
From what Britain has done, if he goes to Pyongyang, as is now being discussed, Secretary Albright is going to go, the number two man in North Korea was in Washington last week.
Things are moving, what's particularly important is that Britain has not attached any conditions.
The United States has imposed a number of conditions on normalizing with North Korea.
The most important of them is that it renounce its missile program and its nuclear weapons program, or rather reach agreements on limiting and possibly ending them both, and as of now we are not in a position to normalize relations with North Korea just like that.
We will want negotiations on some of these contested issues.
Well let me ask you more about America's interest now and Britain's move, I mean how do you make sense of what's happening, especially if Britain was involved in a war with North Korea as obviously was the United States, and until recently North Korea was considered by the US a rogue nation.
It is still shrouded in secrecy, as we said, including in its nuclear weapons program.
Are you trusting of these newly forced alliances, do you consider what Britain is doing either reckless or ill advanced.
No.
And I don't think it is an alliance really, it is just conducting diplomatic interchange with them.
It is not even clear how soon Britain is going to have a mission in Pyongyang.
And so I think it certainly isn't reckless to establish diplomatic relations, and I think indeed it is a very healthy thing because the present leadership of Kim Jong Il, son of the late General You  , he has been trying to open up to the outside world.
He doesn't want to reform his internal economic system or political controls.
On the other hand he needs western capital, he needs supportive international agencies to deal with tremendous economic problems that North Korea has had since the end of the cold war, when they lost their Russian and Chinese economic subsidies.
So that trend of North Korea opening up to the outside, it seems to be, it should be encouraged.
So then as North Korea opens up more and more, what are the possible repercussions down the road for the nearly 40,000 American troops who remain in South Korea.
Well, North Korea's attitude has been that if the United States and North Korea are friends and the North Koreans don't feel threatened, they wont object to some US forces remaining in the Korean peninsula in a new role.
That is to say, if they are going to be there as allies of South Korea against North Korea, then the North Koreans don't want them there, they will keep putting on the pressure for the US to get the forces out.
The North Koreans are certainly not going to end their missile program, if the US continues to maintain some aspects of its military presence in the Korean peninsula such as its aircraft.
So I think they are going to ask for military concessions in order to do what we want them to do regarding missiles, but I think that the assumption that this improvement in ties between North and South and between North Korea and other countries is going to lead to the complete withdrawal of the US from Korea in the near future, certainly I don't think at all, are.
Mr. Harrison, thank you very much for speaking with us.
Thank you.
Selig Harrison is a Korean affairs specialist at the Century Foundation, speaking to us from Washington DC.
Chapter 21
The Last Epoch of Menelik- The Conclusion of the chronicle
In Ethiopia the first years of the 19th century were times when many new things were seen and started.
Moreover, Emperor Menilik all of a sudden became ill and started to become weak although he deserves appreciation for bringing civilization.
With regards to education his attempts so as to make his country's people assiduous, and to enable them understand the value of education and start learning could be seen form the strict proclamation he issued.
"Conquering Lion of the tribe of Judah Menelik II Emperor of Ethiopia" up to now anyone with a skillful hands to do thins used to be called names, therefore, nobody used to work hard to learn and train.
If we line with such harmful situation, churches would be closed, above all, Christianity wouldn't e found.
In other countries not only would they learn each thing, but they also do new things.
Therefore, let all boys and girls enter school offer their six years of age.
Families who are not attentive to teach their children, when the parents die their properties would the transferred to the government, instead of to their children.
It's my government which prepares students and teachers.
1899, Emperor Menelik".
The issuance of this strict proclamation of confiscation of ownership of land and property is one doesn't comply with education legislative decree showed his great intention with regards to education.
So, for the first time, to start European education, he brought teachers form Egypt an opened a school which is called up to now in his name the Menelik II school in 1908.
He did this thinking that it is the first road for a nation's civilization.
During that time, unless one wanted to use it for clerical services in the church or to be a writer, no one took the skills of reading and writing seriously.
Indeed there were many important things that used to be improved and established.
However, he didn't get enough time for other things and improve greatly the administration apart from developing a nation at a time of war, protecting the enemy that came and establishing peace to his people.
Out of what we callas Menelik's peaceful era, the years after the Adowa war, 6 years were the time when emperor Menelik was obliged to stay at home due to illness, and as a result, his natural diligence and strength became weakened and hindered most of the work.
The first feeling of weariness and illness seemed to have started around 1905.
At a time of consultation meeting, a feeling of boredom was seen on him rather than the usual alertness and motivation for work and understanding with patience.
His strong body seemed to have become wearied.
His main intention was to transfer in a strong base to his grandson whom he fostered, the one Ethiopian government which was a stable territory of state which he toiled for years and established.
Hence, in 1909 he gathered his main governors, army officials and lords before Bishop Mathewos and have them vowed that his grandson Honorable son Iyasu was to be the heir so that they wouldn't betray him.
After that the 6 years up to his death were emperor Menelik's time of illness.
When he was caught by illness he was 67 years old.
During this time of illness, impress Taitu tried her best to seize power.
Nevertheless, the emperor, army officials like Tesema and Habte Ghiorgis who were obedient servants an other lords of the house were seriously opposed the idea of her taking power and so the empress' wish wasn't fulfilled.
Prince Mekonnen whom Menelik likes and trusts as his own son and who expands the Harar Province and whose name is mentioned as a hero during the Adowa war died earlier in 1906.
Army official Tesema, too died at a time when emperor Menelik was seriously ill in 1911 just before the emperor's death.
Emperor Menelik who had done all great things in history and unforgettable, the skills of which he brought about were worthy an glittering like a diamond, was forced to patiently hear in his illness unto death in 1914 things that were being done in his government, which may probably be against his will.
In his 35 years of power, he over came very difficult situations with luck patience and wisdom.
His time of power had a lot of struggle and needed great sacrifice and de void of repose.
In this struggle, he was able to receive the prestigious crown of history through his accomplishment, in being able to combine the wishes of the two heroic kings, Emperor Tewdros, who wished to make Ethiopia one, and Emperor Yohannes, who displayed a great love for his country, and in doing so, Menelik could make Ethiopia wide and strong.
After this what remained was through following his steps holding fast and preserve what he struggled and toiled for.
Emperor Menelik also was a fair judge, that was expected from a king above any other work, who loves straight and truthful things, and who properly punished the wrong doer, and for the one who was done wrong, he kept it rights.
He was also popular for his generosity to the poor and being compassionate supporter.
He was a king who used to say in Ethiopian land, after the right land measurement had been make with a long leather or rope, "If during my reign, anyone doesn't take hold of land and those who preferred to get in to your province of birth, you'll remain without land as well as remain staying where you are."
So, due to his generosity and mercifulness, he used to be called by the name a compassionate mother is called and an unforgettable title among his people "motherly Menelik".
The priests, merchants and farmers whom Menelik used to give mantle, soft palate-horse, mule, silver, and oxen and cows, though officially his death, was obscured after December 11, 1914, his people knew from hearsay that he had passed away , and so they used to compose averse at every work place.
The Empress' Time of Banishment
On April 11, 1911 Tesema the Duke died of a sudden illness.
Since the Honorable son Iyasu was only fifteen then, he was the heir of King Menelik, he started ruling Ethiopia independently.
Nevertheless, being aware of his lack and maturity of administration he chose some of the royal family members to help him, but with regards to sharing counsel it was told that they didn't have the skill and the strength.
(Based on the conventional generation live Taye Gulelat, next to Abeto Iyasu, was by far capable than any other members.
Look at the Honorable child Mahtemeselassie woldemeskel Hulke, Generation of the Royal Family of Sahleselassie, table (2nd line).
Abetu Iyasu, after ruling as being a plenipotentiary, in order to avoid the prophecy that "a queen would arise after king Menelik", he reminded queen Taitu to altogether get out of the Palace and stay at Intoto in banishment, (After seeing the political clash that was going on in Addis Ababa, especially the activities of General Ayalew, who was observed by Lord Michael as being opposition to his son's authority, he was expecting serious measures to be taken against him; in contrast, he was not only released from his arrest but also given promotion at Kembata town, which left him an aching void.
Instead of this, when it is looked at from the matter that led them to have strong desire to oppose the ‘empress' relatives, it is possible to estimate the reason as to why the long-standing conflict with Lord Wole was tight with regards to the matter mentioned above).
Because Abeto Iyasu had not entered the palace queen Taitu spent few months there and on the fifth day of July according to the command was decided to make her move to Entoto.
(At the time Lord Wole consulted his followers to go to Addis Ababa the army leader General Yimer explained his readiness to war for the he said how could we keep silent while the Queen is deposed from her authority.
Lord wole was quoted saying along with the criticism and explained that war was wrong "How could I dismantle the government I built with menelik".
Honorable son Desta Aleme, Zini Kemahu).
Before she started her journey on Thursday, she entered the drawing room where her husband's corpse laid to rest next to St. Mary church, at 4 o'clock in the morning.
The death of Emperor Menelik was not disclosed to the public because General Habte Giorgis consulted them not to.
Unable to control her tears, the Empress said, "I have already put aside my harvest, what do I have here, my lord! I will also follow you in my time," and cried.
The people who were around her were touched by her sorrow.
And started crying.
The sorrow over the death of menelik has not yet been forgotten form the side of the people, and the additional eviction of empress Taitu from the palace was thought to induce the mourning, so the nobility, the lords and the honorable ladies wiped their tears and sympathized with each other so as to keep the secrets that has been kept as yet and not letting it out to the public at this coincidence.
Just at five o'clock the candle that was moistened by bees wax was flickered by the butlers like torch sparkling on the area, surrounding the empress making her ready for the journey.
The commander of cavalry brought the empress' mule.
The mules of the nobility, the lords, the honorable ladies and the thirty-nine ladies of the bed-chamber, were outside the premise of the palace waiting for the arrival of the empress.
As the empress started her journey accompanied by her butlers and servants, all followed her with their mules.
When ever she feels tired the journey would break, she would ride off the mule and would sit on a chair that is given to her for taking some rest, and after a while continue the journey.
After traveling seven chapters and reached Intoto area, and a field named Usher Tezazu, a carpet was laid for her honor and on it was a sofa where she laid for a while.
The men welcomed her with cheering while the women with cries of jubilation.
The priests with their ordination out fits and choirs rhythmically danced with the church song.
As soon as the welcoming ceremony was completed the honorable journey continued in high spirits the music that came out of the large wind instrument like a fife, a single-string violin and the harp loudly played accompanying it.
The parade was large.
However, the death of king Menelik which was kept secret was feared to bring about chaos due to the excessive number of the army.
Yet, the people who realized the empress' journey to Intoto expressed its heartfelt sorrow and has no other idea, the Empress appreciated and said, "we really have people" which revealed the love of the people.
As soon as she reached the Intoto palace, she invited the nobilities, lords, honorable ladies and all those army who were gathered there with a feast for the time coincided with the end of June which was also the end of "the apostle's fasting".
During the time of her banishment, for a year and six months and twenty-two days, her loyal servants and all the army didn't rob her from princlliness.
The nobility, the lords, the honorable ladies too were dropping by her day after day giving the appropriate prestige and honor.
Even Abeto Iyasu used to go and see her taking various gifts.
(In Ethiopian government administration it's known that kings used to chose and empower their consultants and for this there was an old proverb that says "A king without consultant would never reign for more than a year".
After the few dates of reminding, the uncle of Mr. Zewditu, governor Weldegiougis' land was seized by they order of honorable son Iyasu, and come to Empress Taitu asking her for being a go-between.
The empress sent the honorable kebede Adenew to honorable son Iyasu who by then used to live in his father, Duke Michael's premise, and the lather bowed his head and gave her message, and promised that he would make the release of his land effectual.
Afterwards, "Does she ever mention me?"
What did she say about me?
He asked and the messenger replied "yes she mentioned your name" and when he asked "how does she mention my name?" and the messenger replied, "he's my son, and I'm his mother and you're his sister and why didn't he visit us? What did we do to him?" and feeling regret, the honorable son Iyasu told her that he would come "Tomorrow afternoon" and she went off with this message.
On the morrow Empress Taitu was waiting him with Mrs. Zewditu, and honorable son Iyasu came as he said, and at first, the food-table was ready before the empress and Zewditu so honorable son Iyasu asked as to where his food-table was; the empress showed him hers and since he was not so happy to eat with one food-table with the empress, the empress quickly reminded him that we were to feel unhappy to eat with you in one food-table for, not you for you are not the king or queen, so they ate with one food-table and he received thank son the release of the land, and honorable left out.
After wards, the empress who was impressed by her messenger's skill apart from properly delivering the message sent by the empress his deeds to tactic fully bring them closer, asked "where on earth, for Christ's sake, did you get such a diligence" to which he replied "God pointed out for me" he said.
If we mention, for instance, the minister of defense, General Habte Ghiorgis bringing gifts of as many oxen, honey and butter, bowing and showing his obedience to her.
(Honorable Kebede Adenew, Zini Kemahu, July 5, 1980)
Since the empress knew the role he played in the conspiracy against her he came to visit her for the first time since she was banished here less than month ago and she asked him "Habte Giorgis When did you start liking me?"
"You have me placed under an interdiction not to get in to my original dwelling place" and added other wards of criticism.
The General in his very witty and wise nature.
I made consultation with the lords so that you should not go to your region.
It's to protect us from being blind.
If you go what kind of eyes, and what light do we have, I thought about Ethiopia.
And as to you, what other, who made things stable? It's you! He replied.
After listening patiently and attentively to him, and reflecting on it for some time, realizing that with the participation of authority others would gain political experience that help the country, she said, "Habte Ghiorgis, you convinced me! Thank you very much!" and order her servant to receive his gift.
Interview of Priest Mekonnen and the Wiseman Abebe Worede and all who were these on September 29, 1972
Since on the occasion of the General's visit a feast was ready to invite the people, the lords gather together and came to the hall where the empress was located, and enjoyed the banquet.
At this juncture the empress gave farewell to general HabtetGhiorgis saying "Don't leave me, visit me".
Nevertheless, the Empress Taitu's yoke of banishment was lifted with less than three months' time.
The reason for this was Honorable son Iyasu's government could stay long and in September 1917 the cabinet of ministers Mrs. Zewditu Menelik coronated Empress Zewditu and was made to substitute and lead the government.
However, the mother Empress thought of honorably returning to the former palace would make her standard low and so preferred to stay at her palace in Intoto.
(What's termed as the fasting of the apostles and be broken on July 13 commonly called the fasting of June.)
After Empress Zewditu came to power, she loved and respected her more than any other time, historians told.
After she became Empress, she had to stay in the palace inviting and talking to guests for a month.
But after a month, she went to Intoto Palace to pay a visit to Empress Taitu.
After reaching there and met the mother empress, as she tried to bow and salute her, Empress Taitu reminded her that the crown of Ethiopia Empress Zewditu had on her head was more respected and at that time this kid of salutation would rather be done by her for it was her turn to do so, and there fore, mother the empress stood up and kissed her, it was told.
While Empress Taitu were at Intoto, she used to pray day and night wishing Ethiopia not to fall at some fault.
She used to offer her advice for the occasional request of government affairs.
For this it would be exemplary to mention what she contributed in October 1917 when the king of Wollo, Michael, opposing his son's Honorable Iyasu's deposition from his power and eviction, called for his army fro war against the new regime.
as soon as this was heard the nobilities and lords of Shoa region said let's fight region going to Wollo, but General Habte Ghiourgis preferred to go to the Empress to Intoto an consult her before that.
"You didn't take a wise decision for the land of Wollo is by nature barricade, so you'll have killed so many people.
Armies from Wadla Delanta area would attack you so by hook or crook bring them to Shoa, Michael is a hero, he's hasty and he'll come," she gave her wise advice.
Honorable Iyasu in his short-term office went to different regions.
The main causes for his downfall were (1) frequenting strict control, warning demotion and even punishment of death on higher officials (2) doing things that are not expected of his standard, and committing injustice, (3) not only didn't have close relation ships with officials and lords, but also didn't give due respect to elders, (4) participations which made him be suspected to have changed his religion to Islam, etc...
The several officials who were displeased by Honorable son Iyasu's administration raised these points and exaggerated, it by saying that, according to the international situation before world war I, the honorable son Iyasu has an agreement of ammunition purchase with Austria, who was an ally of Nazi, Germany, and had discussions with embassies of Germany, Turkey governments, while the British and French governments were following the matters attentively.
And later using photographic techniques, put honorable Iyasu under Muslim cultural outfits, disseminated these photos which contributed for his down fall.
In addition, an Armenian, father Mussie Leon and the owner of Cinema Empire was said to go to Egypt and brought 20,000 copies of the photograph.
Mussie Kachik Zeni Kemahu, april 1980.
The nobilities and the lords being guided by the war strategy given by the empress, were waiting for King Michael, and as she said he came to Shoa traveling day and night, where General Habte Ghiorgis fought him at a place called Segelle Meda with his army of Shoa in a few days and became victorious, taking captive of the king, history remind us.
On the other hand, as has been mentioned above, Empress Taitu apart from sharing ideas and practically supporting Emperor Menelik, after the Emperor's death she didn't stop offering advice to Empress Zewditu from her banished area, Intoto, so as to guard her commands from going out of balance and sustain her authority.
It was known that Emperor Menelik was sick and even after his assign away, the time became a transition and numerous power rival cries put Ethiopia in great controversy and this would make her a weak country, and since this was a great opportunity for a foreign enemy who would like to split up the country, she was very worried.
Because of this, time and again through the messages she used to send by her confidantes, she was advising ways of Empress Zewditu to strengthen her power, her special secretary who is still alive, Honorable son Desta Aleme, speaks.
(Honorable Son Desta: repeated 5 July, 1980)
HAILE SELASSIE I
PRIZE TRUSET
1964-1968
Ethiopia studies Award 10 October 1964 PROF, MARCEL COHEN A Frenchman and  scholar of renown , professor Mrcel Cohenhas extensively written on Ethiopia especially on our history, customers, ceremonies, and games. In addition to his scholarly commitments, professor Cohen has been awarded the Croix de Guerre in both world wars.
The Haile Selassie award for Ethiopia Studies of a value of Eth. $20,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to professor Marcel Cohen, doyen of Ethiopiacists world-renowned linguist and Semitic scholar, for his creation in paris of the school of Ethiopian Studies, and for the inspiration which, his orginginal research and brilliant writings have given to his contemporaries, his pupils and his pupils' pupils.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY PROF. MARCEL COHEN
C'est avec une grande fierte que jiai requ la distinction qui m'a ete accordee ici comme couronnement de ma carriere d'ethiopisant. Au bout de plus de quarante annees ouj'ai enseigne i'amharigna et le geez, j'ai eu le plaisir, le bonheur, je dois dire, de former , d'aider plutot a la formation d'un assez grand nombre de savants plus jeunes que moi, qui continuent mes travaux, aet dont vous connaisez plusieurs, parce qu'ills sont venus travailler ici dans le pays-meme. ii y en aqui sejournent encore parmi vous, d'autres qui sont venus et qui revidendront encore. je dois mentionner aussique pendant ces annees d'etntre vous pourront connatre.
C'est avec joie que je me suis retouve dans cette ville que jen'avais pas vue depuis 53 ans. je l'ai trouvee evidemment changee. j'ai vu la sous mes yeux ce que je capitale. Du temps ou j'y etais deja le grand Menelik ii avait introduit cet instrument de la vie moderne qu'est i'imprimerie, et il avait fovorise la creation de premieres ecoles. Aujourd ' hul ce sont des livres en grande quantite qui s'imriment ici. ii y a beaucopu de jenes auteurs, et sous le patronage de Sa majeste I' Empereur Haile Selassie les decoles se sont multipliees  et se multiplint et s'augmentent toujour. Et e plus il a founde cette nouvelle organisation dont nous beneficions aujourd;hui, et dnt je laremercie encore pour ma part.
His imperial Majesty awarding prof. Marcel Cohen, presented by H.E . Commodors Iskinder Desta.
Africa Research Award 10 October 1964
PROF. WILLIAM LEO HANSBERRY
professor William leo Hansberry was born in Mississipi and educted in HArvard, Virginia State Collge, the Universities of Oxford and Cairo and has served Howard University over a long period of time. Beginning 40 years ago, he introduced the first course on early African civilisations, course eriched and documented with material obtained often at his ownd expense and presented always with his exemplary dedication to the truth revealed by research.
Prof. William Leo Hansberry is an Adviser and Distinguished professor of the University of Nigeria;a Trustee of the African- American institute ; for eight years the was Chairman of the Governing council of Africa House in Washington, and also Adviser to the private organisation,, Operations Cross-roads Africa."
The Haile Selassie Award for AFrican Research of a value of Eth. $70,000, gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to professor William Leo Hansberry for his an thropological, archaeological and historical studies of Africa, for being the tourch bearer who opened the eyes of his fellow-Americans to see and appreciated the vast and still uncharted world of African history, and for the inspiration he gave to a whole generation of students - the present leaders of African and through them the people generation of students- the present leaders of Africa and through them the people generation of students- the present leaders of African and through them the people generation fo students- the present leaders of Africa and through them the people of Africa-to reafffirm their identity so that they can face the future with faith, confidence and courage.
Acceptance speech by Prof. William Leo Hansberry
For nearly 50 yyears, I have been endeavouring to search out and correelted and synthesize in a critical and humanized manner the relevant evidence relating to Africa's true position in world history and in world affairs. In the course of this effort, I have been profoundly impressed by the abudance of evidence relating to Africa's storied and unstoried past. But I have often been deeply distressed by the fact that the truie import of this evidence was so little known to the world at large.
I was therefore immensely pleased when I learned that your imperial Maesty had established a Trust which has as one of its primaerey objectives to recogize and encourage those who are devoting themselves to the task of making this vast body of evidence available in convenient from to the world at large. I was especially gratified of evidence available in convenient form to the world at large. I was especially gratified when I lerned that I had been chosen as a recipient of the first Haile Selassie I prize Trust Award for African Research in m y efforts towards this end.
I am confident, your imperial MAjesty, that many of my fellow-Americans and African brothers join me in expressing to you and the Trustees of the Haile Selassie I prize Trust my very deep gratitude for the great honour which you have bestowed upon me for my effort over deep gratitude for the grat honour which you have bestowed upon me for my efforts over the years to asssist in correcting longstanding misconceptions about Africa's proper place in world  history and in world affairs.
May God grant that your great work continue for many years to come.
His imperial Majesty awarding prof. W.L. Hansberry, presented by Ato Wondowesen Mengesha.
H.E ATO KEBEDE MIKAEL
H.E ATO KEBEDE MIKAEL has assured himself and honoured place among Ethiopia authors through his litary achievements and dedication to intellecual pursuits.
The Haile Selassie Award for Amharic Literature of a value of Eth.$7,000, gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to H.E. Ato Kebde Mikel, for his signifcant contribution to the enrichment of the Amharic language by providing rich and diversified literature to the learning and reading public, by adapting renowned literary national language is flexible, rich , adaptable, and capable to express not only the cultural heritage of Ethiopia but also the heritages of other nations.
H.E. Ato Kebede Mikael, laureate of Amharic Litrature.
ATO AFEWERK TEKLE
The Ethiopia artist of international repute was born in 1925 E.C in Ankober in teh province of Showa. His early training as an artist was mainly at the Slade Faculty of ARts in London, He has since studied in paris, Rome, Florence and Spain. The works of Afewerk Tekele are to be found in private and public collection in Europe, Russia, America and Africa.
Te Haile Selassie Award for fine Arts of a value of Eth. $7,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to Ato Afewerk Tekele, versatile and disciplined artis, for his outstanding paintings, drawings, landscapes, oils, and portraits which eloquently express his particular world environment, and for his contribution in being among the first to introduce contemporary techniques to Ethiopian subject matter and content.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY ATO AFEWERK TEKLE
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
On this solemn occasion of my extreme happines, I cannot help remembering that repeated affirmation by the many schoars and philosophers, who have contemplated at length on this life of ours "that a span of man's life is somposed of sorrow and happiness alternately".
In saying this, the span of my young life, particularly in my childhood, I do not recall any happiness, except times filled with suffering and sorrow. But now, thanks last few years the fruits of my hard work have brought me appreciation from the one who brought me up and educated me, my sovereign Emperir; admiration from the who brought me up and educated me, my Sovereign Emperor; admiration from the enlightened public at large, and great happiness to me as I have never experienced.
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY,
I humbly beg your gracious MAjesty to allow me to tell those in this assembly. in particular those who witnessed and gave me moral support in my diffcult and sometimes impossible struggles in teh creative field for the dignity and integrity of art. With your gracious permission I was to say to them "I aM INDEED HAPPY TODAY AND THEY SHOULD BE HAPPY TOO!"
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY, The patron and protector of Ethiopian, indeed of African Art,
In being the first artist to receive this prize which is highly esteemed and possessing the historic name of your Majesty, I feel  indeed most  honored. May God and history reward you.
Long live the Emperor
May Ethiopia live forever
H.I.M awarding Ato Afewerk Tekle, presented by Ato Abebe Kebede.
TEKA EGHANO AND COMPANY
During the past seven years the company of take Eghano has continually striven to produce coffee of ever-improved quality. At the same time, it has given priority to the human take of promoting the level of its employees and their training for better achievements.
ATO TEKA EGHANO
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY!
It is great joy to me to come before Your Majesty and express my throughts, For reasons that agriculture is belived to be Ethiopia's Source of economy, and for my being the award recipient of the Haile Selassie I Prize Trust, my joy is double fold.
Although plantation of coffee- the cause for our award- is a tiring task, we started growing coffee wigthout having enough capital, but with spirit and courage. Under Mr. Costa Alexandrakis, Mr. Guisseppe Galantina and my self collaborated to this venture and now we are granted this honour. Aside from this , the money we borrowed from teh Development Bank of Ethhiopia-established by Your Majesty's farsightedness is the rsult of this honour.
YOUR MAJESTY!
people from teh province I reside in say that , "cofffee kills her owner and rises herself", and I belive that they have good resons for saying this. Allthough it is difficult to use manual power of only few, as has been repeatedly stated by Your majesty, agriculture, and in particular coffee plantation is the step to development.
In any kind of work, there should be moral support. It is when there is such support that one's spirit is aroused. It is our hope-be it for coffee or any other  kind of agriculture- that there will  be many Ethiopian specialists, for their help and advise are needed.
For the privilege in cooperative farms, and in our day and night endevour, I managed to establish a company in my name, and for me to receive an award in the name of the company is a significant example to all private farm investors.
I believe that this award will arouse the urge of thousands of Ethiopias, and inspire them to work, and abolish the idea of saying. "We work, but out work is not recognized". The award is not limited only to the joy of the recipient, but will not b e denied that it is a base to development and prosperity of Ethiopia.
As people form any party of the world with prominent services recive awards from this Trust, I believe that we, Your people of Ethiopia, according to our ability would with spirit and wholeheartedness serive to be participants of international awards.
Long live Your Imperial Majesty!
Long live His imperial Highness!
Long live Ethiopia for every free.
H.I.M awarding Ato Teka Eghano, presented by Dr. G.E.W. Wolstenholme.
ETHIOPIAN TYRE ECONOMY PLANT
The Ethiopia Tyro Economy plant merits recognition for endeavors contributive to the growth of the national economy and the exemplary value of its activities during the seven years of its existence.
The Haile Selassie Award for industry of a value of Eth. $ 7,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to The Ethiopian Tyre Ecopnomy plant for its examplary management that  has manifested over a period of seven years daring, ingenuity, progressiveness, and energetic leadership. The management has insight and ability to explore and succeed in a venture that was initially uncertain but which later succeeded  not only in the limited objective of rethreading used tyres, but in the larger enterprise of producing rubber soles for the previously importing shoe industries in Ethiopia.
His Imperial Majesty awaring Ato Gebreyesus Oda, Presented by Mr. W.J. Pile.
በአዲስ አበባ ከአሥመራ ዐድዋ፤ ባሕር ዳር ድሬዳዋና በሀገር ሕይወት ለሚገኙ በብዙ ሺ ለሚቆጠሩ ወጣቶች የመንፈሳዊ የትምህርት እዲሁም የማኀበራዊ ኑሮ አገልግሎት በመስጠት የወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኀበር ለኢዮጵያ ሕዝብ ደህንነትና ዕድገት ረድቷል። እርዳታ የሚያስፈልጋቸውን ጠቃሚ እርዳታ ለመስጠጥ ማህበሩ ያከናወናቸው ሥራዎች ለሀገር ጥቅም ከመስጠታቸውም በላይ ማኀበሩ ጥሩ ምሳሌ ለመሆን ችሏል።
የወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር ከ፲፯ ዓመታት በሚበልጥ ጊዜ ለሰው ልጅ ደህንነት የማሰብንና ዕውቀትን የተመረኮዘ የማኀበራዊ ኑሮ ተካፋይነትን ዓላማዎች በትምህርት በማኀበር  ከ ፲፯ ዓመታት በሚበልጥ ጊዜ ለሰው ልጅ ደህንነት የማሰብና ዕውቀትን የተመረኮዘ ማኀበራዊ ኑሮ ተካፋይነትን ዓላማዎች በትምህርት በማኅበራዊ ኑሮና በስፖርት ፕሮግራም ከመቶ አምሳ ሺህ በሚበልጡ ኢትዮጵያውያን አእምሮ የመቅረጽ ከፍያለ አገልግሎ ስለ ሰጠ የ፲፱፻፶፯ ዓ.ም የቀዳማዊ ኃይለ ሥላሴ ሽልማት የኢት ብር ፯ ሺህ ከወርቅ ኒሻንና ዲፕሎም ጋር ይሰጠዋል።
የክቡር ኮሌኔል ታምራት ይገዙ የወ.ወ.ክ.ማ ሬዚዳንት መልስ።
ግርማዊ ሆይ
የኢትዮጵያ ወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር በኢትዮጵያ ሰለፈጸማቸው ሰብአዊ አገልግሎቶች ከቀዳማዊ ኃይለ ሥላሴ የሽልማት ድርጅት ስለተሰጠው ሽልማት በቦርዱ አባሎችና በልዩ ልዩ ኮሚቴዎች በሠራተኞቹና በማኅበርተኞቹ በጠቅላላው በብዙ ሺ በሚቆጠሩ ደጋፊዎቹ ስም ጥልቅ ምስጋናችንን አቀርባለሁ።
ይህ ዛሬ የኢትዮጵያ ወጣቶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኀበር ያገኘው ክብር በመላው ዓለም ያለውን የወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር የብዙ ጊዜ አገልግሎት የሚያስታውስ ነው። የወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናው ማኅበር እንደ አውሮፓውያን ዘመን አቆጣጠር በ፲፷፻፵፬ ዓ.ም በጆርጅ ዊልም በእንግሊዝ አገር ከተመሠረተበት ጊዜ አንስቶ ዘርን ቀለምን ሃይማኖን ሳይለይ ሰውን በመንፈሱና በአካሉ በአእምሮውም ለማጎልመስና ለሁሉም ሰብአዊ አገልግሎት መስጠት ዋና ዐላማው ነው። በአሁኑም ጊዜ ሰማንያ የሚሆኑ አገሮች  በአባልነት የሚኙበት የዓለም የወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር ዋና መሥሪያ ቤት በጄኔቫ ይገኛል።  ግርማዊነትዎ የወጣቶች ወነንዶ ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር በኢትዮጵያ እንዲቋቋም በ፲፱፻፵ ዓ.ም ስለፈቀደ የኢትዮጵያ ወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር በ፲፱፻፶፫ ዓ.ም በዓለም ወ.ወ.ክ.ማዎች ኅብረት ውስጥ ሙሉ አባል ሆኖ ታወቀ።
የኢትዮጵያ ወጣቶች ወንዶች ክርስቲያናዊ ማኅበር በልዩ ልዩ ፕሮግራሞች በብዙ ሺህ ለሚቆጠሩ ሰዎች አገልግሎቱን ያበረክታል። እነዚህም  ልዩ ልዩ አገልግሎች መሠረተ ትምህርት የሕጻናት ትምህርት ቤት የእረፍት ጊዜ ምቾት መስጠት እስፖርት ለልጆች ለክበብ አገልግሎ ለሕዝብ የእውቀት መስጫ ፕሮግራም  ባሕላዊ የሙዚቃ ፕሮግራም ንግግር ፤ ክርክር በህብረትና በቡን የመጫወት ትምህርት የእጅ ሥራ ትምህርት፤ ለማጎልማሶችም እንደየዝንባሌአቸው  የክበብ አገልግሎ እንደጠቃነታቸው እየታ  ይሰጣሉ። የቦዱ ሥራ አስኪያጅ በድርጅቱ ውስጥ የልዩ ልዩ የሥራ ክፍል ኮሚቴ አባሎች የማኅበሩ ሠራተኞ በበጎ ፈቃዳቸው የፈጸሙትን ከፍ ያለ አገልግሎ ለገረርማዊነትዎ ስገልጽ ከልብ ከማመስገን ጋር ነው።
We wish to express our appreciation for the untiring work and devotion of our YMCA Board of MAnagers, our many committees, and our staff.
We are deeply grateful to Your imperial MAjesty for your continued inspiration to and support of our YMCA. Be assured that the award money will be used for the extension of program services for youth and the medal will be displayed in teh young Men's Christian Association. Be assured that the award money will be used for the extension of program services for youth and the medal will be displayed in teh young Men's Christian Association.
This recognition and honor is not only a great joy for the YMCA but it is also a humbling experience and a challenge. It is humbling in that it makes us evaluate and see our many shortcomings, and humbling as we are made aware of the power of God and the way in which this power works among people in the positive ways in which god makes all things possible. This is a challenges as we see ways in which we might better serve God and as we look to the future. Once again, Your imperial Majesty and the Haile Selassie i prize Trust, thank you for this honour, the Haile Selassie i prize Trust Award for Humanitarian Activities.
His imperial Majesty awarding H.E. Colonel Tamrat Yigezu, presented by H.E. Ato seyoum Haregot
EMPRESS MENEN AWARD 10 OCTOBER 1964
THE NOBEL FOUNDATION
Throughout this century the Nobel foundation has translated the beneficence of Alfred Nobel into a great record of international awards, The foundation has won the respect and administration of the greater part of teh world for its integrity, courage impartiality, internationality and conscientious judgement.
The Empress Menen Award given once in four years on teh intiative of the Trustees- with a value of Eth. $35,000 , gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to The Nobel foundation, for services to humanity in the recognition and encouragement of high purpose wherever it may be found in teh world.
ACCEPTANCE SPEEC BY PROF. A. TISELUS
In deep respect, teh Nobel Foundation with to express their gratitude for the great distinction conferred upon us, the Empress Menen Award.
The Haile Selassie i prize Trust and the Nobel Foundation have similar aims- ro recognize and to encourage achievements to the benefit of mankind. The Haile Selassie i prize Trust Awards and teh Nobel prizes also have in common that they are to be given to the worthiest without regard to  nationality, race , religion of political creed.
Our experience has show to us that it is possible to fulfill this high purposes, The difficulties are obvious and shrtcomings cannot be avoided. However, we are under the impression that even in a world of conflicting opinions in many perhaps in most questions, it is possible to find a manifest international opinion for awarding those who have made particularly valuable contributions to human welfare, human welfare in its widest and deepest sense, as an expression of teh gratitude of mankind.
We have the greatest respect and admiration for the initiative taken  by your imperial Majesty in creating this prze Trust. We believe that it is significant that Ethiopia with its high clutural ambitions and its prominent position in the great continent of Africa will be the home of this Trust.
We have great confidence in its future and we shall follow its activities with great sympathy and great interest.
On behalf of the Nobel Foundation, may i express to your imperial Majesty our deepest gratitude.
Empress Menen Award: Prof.  Tiselius, on behalf of the Nobel Foundation, receives the prize.
1965 Haile Selassie prize laureates.
PROFESSOR WOLF LESLAU
professor Leslau was born on November 14,1906 in Czeschowa, poland, at the University of Vienna, and in Paris at the Ecole National des Langues Orientales, and the Sorbonne, where he obtained his Licence-es-Lettres and Docteur-es-Lettres.
He has taught in several institutions among which are Brandeis Unviersity, New School for Social Research, Asia Institute, and the University College of Addis Ababa as a Visiting professor. He is presently [professor of Hebrew and Semitic Linguistics and Chairman of the Department of Near Eastern and Africa Languages at the University of California, Los Angeles. He was recently nominated FAculty Research Lecturer for 1965-66 by his colleagues in recongnition of his achievements in Semitic studies. Author, educator, orientalist, Prof, Leslau has written 17 books and over 200 articles.
Prof. Leslau has conducted research in teh Eghiopic languages during the last thirty years and published extesnively, his most important contributions including a Tigrgana grammar, the obnly scientific grammar of Tigre, a description of the Gafat languge, a number of studies of teh history of Amharic, numerous studies on teh Gurage dialects, a Harari dictionary, and a series of articles on Arabic loanwords in the Ethiopian languages.
His intrest, however, its by no means limited to pure linguistics, but extends to culture and folklore He has made a scientinc study of the Falashas and their litrature, and has also done much to polularize Ethiopia folkore in other lancs. As a dedicated teacher, he has striven to encourage young Ethiopian scholar to take an interest in the scientific study of their own culture and linguistics, and their litrature, and has also done much to popularize Ethiopian studies in the New World.
Prof. Leslau will  be awarded the 1965 Haile Selassie Award for Ethiopian studies of a value of Eth.$20,000 - gold medal, and diploma for his outstanding scholarship in particular for having spent a lifetime systematizing the knowledage of the Ethiopian languages and providing a scientinc classification of them.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY PROF. WOLF LESLAU
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY, Members of the Board, Ladies and Gentlemen:-
I wish to express my profound gratitude to the Haile Selassie I prize Trust for having aganted me the award for Ethiopian Studies. I am particularly happy for having received the award from a country that manifested its intellectual maturity as far back as the 4th century of our era.
Indeed. beginning with that time Ethiopia was able to record its culture, history and religion through inscriptions and literary documents. It is a further a sign of intellectual maturity that the present government of Ethiopia under the leadership of His imperial Majesty Haile Selassie i, Started to take stock of its cultural heritage through the creation of various institutions of research. I am referring to the archeological mission and teh institute of Ethiopian Studies, institutions that investigate the culture of the country in its broad aspects. It is a sign of intellectual maturity to given recognition to the scientific contributions of those individuals who study the various aspects of Ethiopian culture. The Haile Selassie I prize Trust tiook this initiative.
I am particularly happy that the Haile Selassie I prize Trust by granting the Award for Ethiopian Studies to a linguist has recognized the importance that investigation of the country's various languages holds for our knowledage of Ethiopia's cultural and historical past.
His imperial MAjesty awarding prof. W. Leslau, presented by H.E. Lidj Kassa Wolde Mariam.
It is a sign of intellectual maturity that the Award for Ethiopia Studies was given to a non-national for his contributions to Ethiopian Studies. Few nations have achieved this maturity. I hope, however, that the day will come wehen the recipien of this award will be an Ethiopian national, an Ethiopian who will devote his lifetime to the country, the attitude of today's intellectual who studies either at the University of this country or abroad, and the attitude of teh non- intellectual who was curious about my reasons for giving attention to languages such as Chaha, Adare, Selti and Argobba . And when I answered that i did it,, latarik". for history , for research, he understood this reason and gave me his full coopration.
It is this attitude of the intellectual and or the non-intellectual alike that makes us foresee the day when the recipient of the Award for Ethiopia Studies will be an Ethiopian. It is in the hope of having contributed towards the achievement of this goal that I grateful accept eh Haile Selassie Award foe Ethiopian Studies.
H.E. BALAMBARAS MAHTEME SELASSIE WOLDE MESKEL
H.E. Balambaras Mahteme Selassie Wolrd MEskel was born on October 29th , 1950 in Addis Ababa and is the father of ten Children. Educated at Menelik II Schools, Addis Ababa Frency ,, Lycee" in Cairo, and institute National Superieur c'Agriculture Colonial in paris, H.E. Balambaras Mahteme Selassie holds a diploma in general agriculture.
Decorated many times at home and abroad, His Excellency is distinguished public official with many years of dedicated service in various fields. His Excellency has served as Minister of Agriculture, Finance, Minister of State in teh Ministry of Education, and is presently the Minister of public workers and Communications.
The stuggle of Amharic to evolve its own identify and develop as a language was made more difficult than ever before by teh introducation of the compeitive European languages and culture. Tehsis problem can be overcome when the Ethiopian heritage is written and recorded for transmission to future generations. At a period when and Amharic is passing through such a transitional and critical stage, His Excellency has made available works outstanding in their literary beauty of the Ethioppian legacy.
His excellency Balambaras Mahiteme Selassie has admirably and largely fulfilled these obligations to conserve and preserve the Ethiopian heritage through his numerous volumes. His writings, especially,, Yamarigna Kine", ,, Yabatoch kirse" and ,, Zikrae Neger" are examples of teh contributions that have assured His Excellency of a respected and high place among scholars in Amharic.
His Excellency has selectfully and meaningfull compiled poems and sayings and recorded church and court procedures which heretofore have been orally transmittd from generation to generation. The Haile Selassie Award for Amharic Literature of a value of Eth, $7,000 , gold medal, and diploma will be given to His Excellency Balamdaras Mahteme Selassie Wolde Meskel for his outstanding and lasting contributions which ensure a firm cultural foudnationa nd setting for Amharic.
Speech By Balambaras Mahteme Selassie Wolde MEskel, Amharic Literature Award Winner, on October 12th, 1965
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
I am greatly honoured to find myself amongst the prize winners of the Haile Selassie I prize Trust and to receive from your Majesty the Award for Literature.
I was delighted when m y name was announced with those of other winners; my pleasure was even greater when i learnt that the works upon which i had laboured to immortalise the culture and tradition of our country were selected  by teh Committee as my most important contributions towards Ethiopic learning.
The Haile Selassie I prize Trust  has clearly expressed in its publication teh need for and teh value of compiling traditional works, appropriately documented and classifled, and of passing these on teh successive generations, it is indeed very gratifying to find that I have contributed towards this objective.
While it was extremely terrifying to witness the ruthless and barbarous massacre of people and teh destruction of property by teh enemy during the occupation of our country, it was equally distressing to think that tradition and culture might also vanish due to the breaking of the chain in the otherwish smooth continuity of our culture. Furthermore, it was alarming to anticipate that the new generation, readily adopting itself to foreign civilisation, would not k now of our tradition and culture if these were not handed down in writing, and would remain solely under the influence of foreign culture.
It was, threfore, because of this fear that I endeavoured to set aside my personal sentiments, as an author or historian, and sought our elders who had survived teh oppression in order to collect existing writings and subsequently to compile and coordinate all these fragments, often mutilated, so that at last some party of our culture could  be preserved for future generations. The results of my efforts include the books entitled,, Zikre Neger" (Recollections of Bygone Times).,, Yabatoch Kirs" (Heritage from our Forefathers), ,,Amarigna ine" (Amharic Poetry) and,, inkilf Lemine" (Why sleep),. giving a clear picture of our society.
Each of these four books is characteristic: the first shows us that "Our way of life not only reflects our natural abilities but also our tendencies and inclinations", the second that "Most of our proverbs are based on holy writings", the third that "Our poetry is extremely beautiful", and lastly, the fourth that, Our fables illustrate good principles and there is always a moral to be drawn from them".
I feel that I must mention here that I was given sound moral support by the decision of the Ministry of Education and Fine Arts to include the above books in its school curriculum, for which I am deeply grateful, and also for the encouragement and support that I received from friends, teachers and scholars abroad.
In general, our language is rich and beautiful if studied deeply. One word may have several meanings each conveying different ideas.
I believe that the foregoing books, if followed by many other similar works, will give a clear picture of Ethiopian culture.
It is well known that seeking culture from without can make knowledge complete only when it complements the knowledge of one's own. And regarding the knowledge of our own culture, Ethiopia offers a field as rich as it is vast on which to draw. Once our ancestral heritage is reconstructed, nothing would hinder us from making it known to the rest of the world. Thus, it would be expedient for the youth of our country to adopt the motto "We also have it and we are making it known to you". I say this because I know it is the desire of every Ethiopian to see our language and culture propagated.
His imperial Majesty awarding, H.E, Blatten Guesta Mehteme Selassie W.Meskel.
YOUR MAJESTY.
Among the innumerable institutions established by Your Majesty for the development and prestige of Ethiopia, the Haile Selassie I prize Trust is that which offers moral encouragement and a greater cultural life. And, well knowing that the deliberations of the Trustees and their committee of experts are not only of great importance but also very difficult, -- in that the assessment of workers is carried out not through peronal contact with candidates considered, but purely by appraisal of various works through painstaking investigation and review -- I beg Your Majesty's permission to thank, in your presence, The Trustees and all those assisting them in their aduous task.
Long Live His Imperial Majesty
Long Live His Imperial Highness the Crown prince
Long Live Ethiopia in independence.
ATO GEBRE KRISTOS DESTA
Born on the 15th October, 1932 in Harrar, Ato Gebre Kristos Desta was educated in Germany where he obtained diplomas in his academic endeavors and in his professional field of fine arts. In addition to his artistic achievements for which he is being honored, Ato Gebre Kristos writes poems and short stories and he is teaching at the Menelik II Fine Arts School.
A gifted artist with outstanding creative and interpretative abilities, he is largely responsible for introducing non-figurative art in this country. He successfully represents the modern trend among Ethiopian painters and his works constitute a brilliant contribution to the recent development of the world of art at large.
His paintings, which always maintain relationship with reality, manifest a distinct technique full of vitality, discipline, and expressionism.
The growth and evaluation of Ethiopian art have been advanced through his contributions and Ato Gebre Kristos’ past achievements convincingly ascertain that this brilliant artist will further influence the world of art and the coming generation of Ethiopian artists. Ato Gebre Kristos will receive the 1965 Haile Selassie Award in Fine Arts of a value of Eth. $7,000 gold medal, and a diploma.
H.I.M. awarding Ato Gebre Kristos Desta. Fine Arts Prize, 1965.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY ATO GEBRE KRISTOS DESTA
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
The prize Trust which has been established through your Majesty's goodwill and foresight will, undoubtedly, encourage many people and open new avenues to wards different kinds of knowledge.
The main aim of human-being is to make his dreams come true on one hand, and to reap the fruits of his toil on the other. Since civilization itself is history it is difficult to see its result within the span of time of generation or two. But to open new roads of civilization is to encourage the present generation and to pave the way in advance for the coming one. Whenever there is a new kind of civilization, it is possible that the voice of criticism is likely to be heard loud. Any new kind of civilization, if not started at the present time, will become strong and difficult to grasp even when it comes after ten years.
These difficulties have been also felt in the field of Fine Arts -- many artists of the past have been neglected and forgotten during their lifetime, but their works have been praised by the second or the third generation. Although the painter reflects the image of his time and expresses things surrounding him, history has represent ones express the beauty of man and his growth and civilization in general. Although as long as he exists on this planet man is the measure of all things, modern man considers himself as the key to a certain kind of knowledge. But he doesn't boast of his perfection and wisdom.
Modern art also follows the same thought -- the artist tries to see the world subjectively; he tries to express nature around him. On the whole, he endeavors to create new ways and means to explain the universe in general. Nowadays, painting is not limited, and is not led into a narrow channel -- instead, it has become a knowledge which moves fast in many different directions. It is this knowledge of research that makes modern art somewhat confusing. In life as in the creative process confusion has its own laws and symmetry which definer its mere existence -- likewise, abstract or modern art has its own rules and its own language. Until this language is mastered many people might find abstract art confusing. In art, the greatest happiness is work and the result of creation. Modern art, as the classical paintings, doesn't tell stories and show realistic things like the camera does. In the language of modern art the painting itself is an idea; it is the feeling, the thought, and the expression of something. In this twentieth century, when man delves into space and tries to find the meaning of the universe, in painting too, instead of concentrating on himself alone, man sees the world from many different aspects and tries to express the eternal and the universal by creating music in color, line and form.
YOUR MAJESTY,
Like agriculture, industry and economy, which are the backbones of a country, the Fine Arts are gaining importance in Ethiopia -- and the recognition of Modern Art today by this Prize Trust is highly plausible. This prize is for me, until now, the greatest and I honor it. I have submitted to your Majesty my future plan which will be very useful for the development of art in our country -- and I am sure your Majesty will help me.
I thank from the depth of my heart your Imperial Majesty who is the Founder and the Patron of this foundation. I also thank the Trustees and the judges and wish them success in their future endeavor.
DUMCO DUM COMPANY LTD. (MANIFATTURA SACCHI ASMARA)
DUMCO Dum company Ltd. Share Company and its subsidiary, Manifattura Sacchi Asmara, were established in 1950 and in 1960 respectively. DUMCO Dum Company is especially engaged in the extraction of textile fibers from the Doum Palm leaves while Manifattura Sacchi Asmara specializes in the conversion of the Doum fibers into sacks, twines, and cloth.
Technical experts have over half a century attempted to extract fiber from Doum Palm leaves but failed to attain tangible results. DUMCO Dum Co. Ltd. succeed admirably in both perfecting the extraction process as well as in conceiving,  designing, and building a prototype of the machine for processing, it developed this technique after ten years of sacrifice, hard work, and perseverance.
The fiber obtained through this process has proved to be fine substitute four jute on which the world's sacking industry primarily depended. With the latest improvements in techniques and machinery, the Doum Palm fiber price compares favorably ably with the price of jute.
The achievement of the Company, which presently employees 650 people, has proved to be more than a local industrial success and one of self-sufficiency. Other countries such as the Sudan and buying sacks from Ethiopia and many others are considering the establishment of similar undertakings.
Manifattura Sacchi Dum Company Ltd. Asmara will be recognized for the uniqueness in its achievement, its contribution to the national economy, and exemplary importance at the international level. Manifattura Sacchi Dum Company will receive the 1965 Haile Selassie Award for industry of a value of Eth. $ 7,000, gold medal, and a diploma.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY MR. TULLIO CAMERINO
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY፣
The great honor that has been bestowed by the Haile Selassie I Prize Trust upon the group if industrial activities I have the privilege of launching and realizing gives me today the coveted opportunity of expressing to your Imperial Majesty my most heartfelt thanks together with my sincerest respect.
I believe that your Majesty would like to hear from the living, sincere and deeply moved voice of a foreigner working in the freedom of your Empire the expression of gratitude that I feel my duty to extend to all the Ethiopian labor working in my factories. To them, besides to the gracious kindness of your Imperial Majesty and the benevolent consideration of the Prize Committee, I owe the high recognition granted on this unforgettable moment.
From the world of your Imperial Majesty at the time of establishing the Prize Trust, it is obvious that the progress of the Empire of Ethiopia is of primary but not the sole concern of the Ethiopian. He is also concerned with the welfare of the continent of Africa and the whole world as well. It is because of the farsighted and universal concern that your Imperial Majesty has desired that the contribution of Ethiopian citizens as well as foreign nationals living and working permanently in Ethiopia be officially recognized.
The highest summit of world peace, the welfare mankind, mutual understanding between peoples will be reached in the future -- a desirable future -- through work alone. It is work which brings men closer, unit them, and makes them seek together for peace, welfare, and dignity.
It is in work, guided but free, intelligent and qualified , aware and respectful of the human rights that God granted, in work designed to realize the general welfare and unforgetful of the superior aim of the improvements of the individual, that men can hope with good reason to find a peaceful, prosperous and better tomorrow.
Your Imperial Majesty, I most respectfully ask Imperial Majesty to allow me to express here the hope and the wish that not only the prize awarded to me but also the constant benevolence, the high protection and the continuous effort for an ordered progress of this country will make work, loved and respected in the Empire of Ethiopia. May Ethiopia maintain, under the enlightened guidance of your Imperial Majesty, the prominent rank in spiritual and material progress it has attained in these difficult times.
May God protect and bless this country where the work and the initiative of men from every land are respected and helped and may it never fail to have the peace promised on earth to all men of good will.
But the sense of urgency for this meeting matches the rage felt by both Israelis and Palestinians after yesterday's violence.
Today Israel buried one of its two soldiers beaten to death bay a mob of Palestinians yesterday.
Today in Jerusalem, Israeli security forces barred Palestinians under the age of 45 from praying at the al-Aqsa mosque.
Young Palestinians prayed outside and some young men were asked and beaten by Israeli police which may help make clear why arranging a summit is so difficult.
And why the political leaders will have such a hard time keeping the streets -- getting the streets calm.
ABC's Gillian Findlay reports tonight from Palestinian Gaza.
On the streets of Gaza today, talk of summits and peace was the last thing many Palestinians wanted to hear.
Only a day after Israeli missiles destroyed two police boats here, one of them very close to Mr. Arafat's own office.
Today, Israel released footage of yesterday's other attacks shot from inside a helicopter gun ship.
These missiles landed in the city of Ramallah.
With Israeli gun boats continuing to control the coast today, Gaza police were taking no chances.
Abandoning their stations for the city's main square.
What Israel did yesterday has turned anger here to fury.
It is war, Palestinians say, and Mr. Arafat has no business talking peace.
You want a war?
Yes.
Why?
I hope.
Why?
Because no peace.
After all this, no peace.
At another rally in Georgia today, Islamic leaders called openly for terror attacks on Israel.
Extremist groups have a lot of support these days and a lot of power.
This afternoon, a crowd of angry Muslims set fire to a hotel and to homes of people who they say sold alcohol.
Palestinian police did little to stop them.
Even if Mr. Arafat goes to a summit, and even if he signs an agreement, there is no guarantee any more that his people will listen.
Gillian Findlay, ABC News, Gaza.
At the bottom of the sea.
Two months after the submarine "Kursk" went down with 118 men on board, divers have managed to get inside.
They found five bodies so far.
And today, they found a note, written after a pair of explosions ripped through the hull and sent the "Kursk" into the depths of the Barents see.
Here's ABC's bob woodruff.
The note was discovered by divers inside one compartment of the submarine, on the body of 27-year-old lieutenant captain Dmitry Kolesnikov, photographed here on board the "Kursk" three years ago.
"I am writing blindly," he wrote apparently in darkness.
"None of us can get to the surface."
Russian officials believe the note was written at least two hours after the sub began to sink.
"All the crew from the sixth, seventh and eighth compartments went over to the ninth."
Kolesnikov wrote, "There are 23 people here.
We made this decision as a result of the accident."
The note contains no new evidence about what sank the "Kursk," whether it was an internal explosion or a collision.
But it does contradict the official Russian version that was given to family members, that all 118 men had died instantly.
Today, the chief of Russia's navy was forced to admit to the families he was wrong, that some of the crew not only survived, according to Kolesnikov's note,
Two or three tried to get out through the escape hatch.
But it may have been flooded.
Today, Kolesnikov's widow could not hold back her tears.
"It's horribly painful, it's awful," she said.
"I had a feeling that he didn't die immediately, and it turned out my feeling was right."
She also says her husband had a premonition.
Last summer, before he went to sea, he gave her his dog tag and a crucifix, and said he may not be coming back.
Bob Woodruff, ABC news, London.
In news overseas, at a United Nations environmental summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, representatives from 122 nations signed an agreement banning the use of 12 highly toxic chemicals.
Among them, dioxins and other chemicals, which are known as "the dirty dozen."
They have been linked to cancer, birth defects, and other genetic abnormalities.
Tens of thousands of people took to the streets across the Middle East Thursday, demonstrating against military strikes on Iraq and calling on Muslims to wage jihad against the United States and its allies.
Lebanon and the Palestinian Authority issued fierce denunciations of the US-led attacks, while the Egyptian government daily Al-Ahram warned it marked "the beginning an era of US colonisation that will benefit only Israel".
Protests against the action aimed at toppling Iraqi President Saddam Hussein were held in cities across Libya, Egypt and Lebanon, as well as in Amman, Damascus and the Gaza Strip.
However, there were no reports of protests against the war from the Gulf states, many of whom are host to US military personnel.
Saudi Arabia, however, expressed its "deep concern" and regret over the start of US military operations.
Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal spoke of the "kingdom's hope for a quick halt in military action and for the return to peaceful efforts", the state SPA news agency reported.
In Riyadh's first reaction to the start of the against, he also called for Iraq's "unity, internal security and territorial integrity" to be preserved and rejected military occupation.
Lebanese President Emile Lahoud, meanwhile, was more forthright, strongly denouncing Washington's "aggression" and warning that it could have repercussions beyond the borders of the pariah state.
"We have warned against the marginalisation of the United Nations ... and we see this aggression today plunging the world into a tunnel where one cannot see the end," he said in a statement.
"For these reasons, we judge that it is necessary that the forces of peace and those who believe in right and justice take the necessary and rapid steps to halt this dangerous slide into war against Iraq which will result in heavy human and material losses."
The Palestinian Authority also condemned Thursday's early morning missile strikes on Iraq, and warned Israel not to exploit the conflict.
"We Palestinians are against the war and we totally condemn this war in the Middle East.
A solution must be found to this problem through diplomatic means, with the international community," local authorities minister Saeb Erakat said.
"We are warning Israel not to exploit this war against Iraq to carry out more attacks against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip and destroy the Palestinian Authority and the peace process," he said.
The radical Palestinian movement Islamic Jihad warned that "the war against Iraq is a war against the whole region", while Hamas issued a chilling warning against those taking part in the war against Iraq.
"The aggression by the vile Americans and the war against Iraq signifies a war against all Arabs and Muslims around the world," said Hamas senior official Abdul Aziz al-Rantissi.
The war "shows the impotence of all Arab states.
We call on all Arab states to act immediately to defend Iraq and counter the US war," he said.
"I don't think America will win this war, as our jihad (holy war) and our resistance will teach the Americans and British a lesson they will never forget," he said.
State radio in Syria accused the United States and its allies of wanting to get their "hands on Iraq's oil and wealth and impose their hegemony on the world".
In the Egyptian capital, 10 demonstrators and at least four policeman were injured in clashes after several thousand demonstrators took to the streets near the US and British embassies.
Riot police intervened after the protestors, who included hundreds of students from the American University in Cairo, rallied on the city's central Tahrir Square, close to both the university campus and the US embassy.
More than 1,000 people also gathered at Cairo's Al-Azhar Islamic University, where they burned an American flag and demanded the expulsion of the ambassadors of the United States, Britain, Spain and Israel.
Demonstrations also took place in the northern Egyptian cities of Alexandria, Tanta and Kafr el-Sheikh.
In Amman, three protestors were hospitalised after some 500 Jordanian lawyers staged a sit-in at the main court house after being forcibly blocked by riot police from marching towards the Iraqi embassy to show their solidarity.
In Lebanon, hundreds of students gathered on the campuses of the Arab University of Beirut and the American University of Beirut calling for the assassination of US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
South of the capital in Sidon, some 1,500 schoolboys denounced "the Bush assassin" and the "silence of the Arab leaders who sold out Iraq".
Fifteen people were killed and more than 30 wounded Wednesday as a suicide bomber blew himself up on a student bus in the northern town of Haifa, the first bombing in Israel in exactly two months.
Several hours later, dozens of Israeli tanks advanced into the northern Gaza Strip backed by helicopters which fired at least three rockets in the Jabaliya area, Palestinian security sources said.
Palestinian medical sources said 60-year-old Mohammed al-Biyari was killed in his home near Jabaliya refugee camp by the rocket fire and another wounded.
A second rocket landed in farmlands and the other hit a house inside the refugee camp, but without causing further casualties, Palestinian security sources said.
Two 13-year-old children were among those killed in the Haifa bus bombing, Israeli public radio said, adding that most of the victims were youngsters.
The army said two soldiers were also among the dead.
The bus was ripped to shreds while travelling between a residential area and Haifa university.
Of the 33 injured still in hospital late Wednesday, two were in intensive care and six others in serious condition, the radio said.
Israel's night-time raid in Gaza involving around 40 tanks and armoured vehicles came after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon convened his security cabinet to discuss a response to the bomb attack.
Israeli media said the retaliation was unlikely to be on a scale that would risk disrupting US preparations for war on Iraq.
The Palestinian suicide bomber on the Haifa bus came from the southern West Bank town of Hebron, public radio said, naming him as 20-year-old Mahmoud Hamadan Salim Qawasmi.
Apart from his ID card, also found in the wreckage were the remains of a letter allegedly outlining his plan to carry out a suicide attack and praising the September 2001 destruction of the World Trade Centre in New York, it said.
Israeli police were not immediately available for comment, but Palestinian sources in Hebron said Mahmoud Qawasmi was a 21-year-old student with links to the Islamic radical group Hamas.
Israeli forces moved into Hebron's Al-Sheikh district where his family lived and arrested Qawasmi's brother and father after the bombing, they said.
Without claiming responsibility, Hamas and another hardline group, Islamic Jihad, said the blast was revenge for a string of bloody Israeli army raids into the Gaza Strip in recent weeks.
But the Palestinian Authority condemned the attack, saying it would divert international sympathy away from the far higher Palestinian civilian death toll.
"We condemn all attacks against civilians including today's attack in Haifa," said information minister Yasser Abed Rabbo.
The Palestinian leadership said the attack would serve as "a pretext for Israel's government and occupation army to step up its deadly campaign which caused the deaths of 77 Palestinians in February".
It was the first bomb attack inside Israel since January 5, and came just days after the hawkish Sharon appointed the most right-wing government in Israel's history on a pledge to get tough on security.
In the January attack, two Palestinian suicide bombers blew themselves up in central Tel Aviv, killing 23 other people.
Israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner called the latest deadly blast a "very grave attack" and said the Jewish state would take "vigorous action against the terrorist organisations".
He told AFP that Israeli intelligence had been dealing with at least 40 tip-offs of impending attacks when the Haifa bus was blown up.
US President George W. Bush condemned the "attack on innocents in Israel," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said, adding that "his message to the terrorists is: Their efforts will not be succcessful.
"He will continue to pursue the path to peace in the Middle East."
EU foreign policy supremo Javier Solana likewise slammed the attack, although he also took a jab at Israel, saying, "There have been too many civilians killed in the last weeks and the last days."
In London, a spokesman for the British prime minister said Tony Blair "condemns absolutely what has happened".
The spokesman added that he "would obviously call on all sides to do what they can to break the cycle of violence, because it is only through engagement that we can realise the vision everyone wants to see.
"There needs to be dialogue in order for this to be resolved."
The bus attack came just two days after Israeli forces staged a bloody raid into a refugee camp in central Gaza targeting a founding member of Hamas, which has spearheaded suicide bombings against the Jewish state.
Hamas vowed to continue its attacks, while the Palestinian Authority accused Israel of trying to disrupt top-level Palestinian meetings to discuss reforms of Arafat's administration.
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat said international intervention was needed to break the cycle of violence.
Eight people, including a pregnant woman and a 13-year-old child were killed in Monday's Gaza raid, provoking US-led international calls for Israeli restraint.
And on Tuesday, Israeli troops shot dead an elderly Palestinian shepherd outside a Jewish settlement on the edge of Gaza City.
In the West Bank, an eight-year-old Palestinian boy as well as his brother and a sister were wounded late Wednesday by Israeli gunfire in a village north of the town of Ramallah, their elder sister said.
Thousands of fresh US troops headed for Iraq Thursday as British Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush discussed the effort to oust Saddam Hussein, which some senior US military officials warn could last months.
About 1,000 soldiers from the US Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade parachuted into an airfield in a Kurdish-controlled area of northern Iraq, establishing a base through which to bring in more troops and tanks, Pentagon officials said.
And some 12,000 soldiers from the US Army's 4th Infantry Division, which was supposed to have gone into northern Iraq through Turkey, began flying out of Fort Hood, Texas, Thursday to the region, a military fort spokeswoman told AFP.
The soldiers are to meet up with ships transporting their equipment, which is arriving in Kuwait from the Mediterranean, where it had been idling for weeks on navy ships awaiting Turkey's decision.
The war in Iraq could last months and require considerable US military reinforcements to assure a victory, the Washington Post reported Thursday, quoting senior US military officials.
Sandstorms, dangerously long supply lines and a recalcitrant enemy "has led to abroad reassessment by some top generals of US military expectations and timelines," the Post reports.
"Tell me how this ends," one senior officer asked the Post.
Most US army commanders believe it is critical to pause the breakneck advance towards Baghdad to secure the supply lines and make sure weapons are operable and troops resupplied after days of powerful sandstorms and damage inflicted by Iraqi attacks, the Post reports.
The Post also quoted Central Intelligence Agency and Pentagon intelligence analysts complaining that Bush officials largely ignored their warning that Iraqi irregular forces would use guerrilla tactics and offer significant resistance.
Publicly US officials have insisted that the war is going according to plan, and the most advanced US forces are currently some 100 kilometers (60 miles) outside of Baghdad.
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld dismissed worries that there were insufficient forces in the Gulf region if the battle for Baghdad goes wrong.
After briefing US senators on the war, Rumsfeld told reporters that the number of forces "has been increasing and it will continue to do so until it is finished."
Meanwhile Blair arrived in Washington late Wednesday for two days of talks with Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat.
Talks were to focus on how to run a post-Saddam Iraq, with Washington resisting a large United Nations role.
Blair faces an uphill battle to win Bush over to giving the UN oversight of a post-Saddam administration, as Washington officials are still angry at Germany, Russia, and especially France, over the failure to secure UN Security Council approval for military action.
Blair and Bush were to hold a joint press conference at 1600 GMT Thursday.
Britain has deployed some 45,000 troops to fight with the more than 250,000 US soldiers lined up against Iraqi troops.
Bush gave a new, stronger warning that the war could become drawn out.
"As they approach Baghdad, our fighting units are facing the most desperate elements of a doomed regime," Bush told cheering military personnel Wednesday at the Florida headquarters of Central Command, which is running the campaign.
"We cannot predict the final day of the Iraqi regime, but I can assure you -- and I assure the long-suffering people of Iraq -- there will be a day of reckoning for the Iraqi regime, and that day is drawing near," he said.
At the last minute, Bush withdrew a phrase in his speech saying the campaign was "ahead of schedule."
A senior administration official said the president had decided to be cautious.
Bush pointedly paid tribute to the 48-nation "coalition of the willing" -- particularly Britain -- that is publicly backing the campaign.
Separately, US Secretary of State Colin Powell emphasized US determination to pursue the military campaign despite the diplomatic pressure Washington faces at the United Nations.
"We are interested in concluding this conflict, not having a pause right now or stopping right now, but concluding this as quickly as possible so we can get on with the rebuilding of Iraq and putting in place a better system of governance," Powell said in an interview with the Al-Jazeera Arab
television network.
Powell, the most moderate member of the Bush cabinet, said he fully agreed with the president's policy on Iraq and had no plans to leave.
"Personally, I'm very much in sync with the president and he values my services," he said in an interview with National Public Radio.
Meanwhile the Wall Street Journal reported that several British and US oil companies have quietly advised US and British forces on how oil fields operate so they could safeguard the fields in Iraq.
The companies, including Britain's BP PLC and the Texas-based Boots and Coots International Well Control Inc., were not paid for their consultations, but allied military engineers said their advice was critical.
Some 2,500 mainly university students formed a human chain in Japanese characters spelling out "No War" in Osaka on Sunday to protest against the ongoing US-led military campaign in Iraq.
"We cannot forgive this war," Miyako Fuji, 20, one of the rally's organisers told Jiji news agency.
"I want to join together the feelings of each of us as individuals who oppose the war."
Protesters, who exceeded the 2,000 expected to show up at the park at Osaka Castle in the city's downtown neighbourhood, carried placards that read "Stop war" and "Love and Peace" while forming the human chain after 3:00 pm (0600 GMT), Jiji said.
The protest follows a string of others involving tens of thousands of peace activists across Japan since January.
According to a poll by Kyodo news agency released Saturday, 78 of 100 people surveyed opposed the military action in Iraq.
A separate poll of 1,846 adults by the leading Yomiuri newspaper published Tuesday showed 64 percent felt Japan had "no choice" but to back the United States, with only 12 percent saying Japan had "every reason" to back the war.
 British Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown on Tuesday named the current head of the country's energy regulator as the new chairman of finance watchdog the Financial Services Authority (FSA)
Former senior banker Callum McCarthy begins what is one of the most important jobs in London's financial world in September, when incumbent Howard Davies steps down.
Davies is leaving to become chairman of the London School of Economics, one of the best-known parts of the University of London.
Brown said McCarthy would bring to the FSA "an unrivalled combination of experience of the public sector, experience as a senior practitioner in the financial services industry, and chairman of a highly successful regulator."
McCarthy currently heads the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, or Ofgem, which regulates Britain's privatised energy industry.
As well as previously holding senior positions at Barclays Bank, BZW and Kleinwort Benson, McCarthy was formerly a top civil servant at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Under Davies's watch, the FSA became Britain's sole regulatory body for financial services in November 2001, taking on the various functions of nine separate agencies.
At least three members of a family in Indias northeastern state of Tripura were hacked to death by a tribal mob for allegedly practicing witchcraft, police said Thursday.
A spokesman said a group of 25 to 30 armed men Wednesday attacked a house belonging to a village quack doctor in Tultuli, 60 kilometers (38 miles) south of Tripuras state capital Agartala.
"The mob dragged out three members of a family and (killed) them with machetes and spears before fleeing the area," the spokesman said by telephone from Agartala.
The dead included the quack doctor, 55-year-old Nityalila Naotia, his teenaged son and another member of the family, whom he did not identify.
"It was believed Naotia was a practicing sorcerer and through his black magic he had cast evil spells on villagers, prompting a group within the village to eliminate them," the spokesman said.
Police have arrested four people in connection with the killings.
Superstitious beliefs, black magic and demonology are integral to the tribal custom in parts of Tripura and other northeast Indian states.
Many tribes practice faiths believed to be a mix of black magic and superstition.
A Pakistani court in central Punjab province has sentenced a Christian man to life imprisonment for a blasphemy conviction, police said Sunday.
Judge Shahid Rafiq, of the district court in the industrial city of Faisalabad, found Ranjha Masih guilty of defiling Koranic verses during a protest rally by the minority Christian community in 1998.
In a verdict handed down on Saturday, the judge also ordered Ranjha to pay a fine of 50,000 rupees (about 870 US dollars), they said.
Ranjha was accused of tearing down a billboard carrying verses from the Koran in Faisalabad during a Christian demonstration after the city's bishop committed suicide over the 1985 blasphemy law.
Faisalabad's Catholic Bishop John Joseph, who had been campaigning against the law, shot himself in the head outside a court in Sahiwal district when the judge convicted Christian Ayub Masih under the law in 1998.
Ayub Masih was charged in 1996 with blasphemy for allegedly defending British author Salman Rushdie, whose novel "The Satanic Verses" infuriated radical Mulsim clerics who accused the author of defaming Islam.
The Pakistani supreme court last year aquitted Ayub Masih, who had denied uttering any word against Islam or the Prophet Mohammad.
Blasphemy is punishable by death under the Pakistan Penal Code.
However, no blasphemy convict has ever been executed in the country.
Christian rights activists campaigning against the laws, introduced by late military dictator General Zia-ul Haq, say they are mainly used to persecute Christians or to settle feuds over land.
Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom on Wednesday stressed Qatar's role in the Middle East peace process during talks with his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani in Paris.
Shalom told a joint press conference that the tiny Gulf state's strong relationship with the recently appointed Palestinian prime minister, Mahmud Abbas, could be a boost for peace.
"We discussed the Middle East peace process.
Over an hour of talks, we asserted the will of both parties (Israel and the Arab world) to do everything to return to the negotiating table," Shalom said.
"Qatar is a very important country on this issue.
I know the special relationship that the Qatari foreign minister has with Abu Mazen," he said, using Abbas's alternative name.
The meeting was Shalom's first encounter with an Arab counterpart since he took office as Israel's foreign minister on February 27.
Qatar has economic links with Israel without maintaining diplomatic relations, in the face of criticism from other Arab countries.
Afterwards Shalom was to fly on to London for talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw.
US President George W. Bush told Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien by telephone Monday that he looked forward to seeing him at the upcoming summit of major industrialized nations and Russia, the White House said Tuesday.
"The two leaders discussed the upcoming G-8 meeting, US-Canada (relations) and other international issues of concern," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said days before the June 1-3 summit, to be held in France.
"Both said they look forward to seeing each other in Evian.
They also touched on Afghanistan, the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and on the global economy," said Fleischer.
Amid a chill in relations over the war in Iraq, which Canada opposed, Bush indefinitely postponed a visit to Canada, instead choosing to host Australian Prime Minster John Howard, who endorsed that military campaign.
On Monday, Chretien told reporters that he and Bush, who had not spoken since late February, discussed a wide range of issues, including Iraq, the upcoming summit of the Group of Eight industrial powers and aid to Africa.
"We've always been on good terms.
A provincial chief from India’s main opposition congress party has told an election rally that India is suffering nature’s "curse" because both the president and prime minister and bachelors, a report said Saturday.
We just disagree on one item," the Canadian leader said.
The Times of India newspaper quoted Digvijay Singh, chief minister of the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, as saying that Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and President Abdul Kalam had off ended the Hindu rain God Varuna by remaining bachelors.
"The country is being ruled by a bachelor president and an unmarried prime minister.
"Not just Prime Minister Vajpayee but president Kalam’s bachelor status is making the country dry, arid and infertile," he added.
The general secretary of Vajpayee’s ruling Bharatiya Janata party, pramod Mahajan, retorted that Singh’s statement was "beneath contempt."
India’s has been reeling under a heat wave since mid-may which has killed 1,403 people.
This according to the Hindu shastras (books) is very inauspicious and that is the reason there is a widespread heat wave and drought, "said Singh.
The skeleton of a second baby has been found at a rural Wisconsin home where a 22-year-old woman's dead infant was discovered in a blue plastic container June 8, officials said Monday.
The country’s western desert state of Rajasthan is also bracing for its fifth straight year of drought.
Kristin Scott, the mother, told police she gave birth secretly to both babies at her parents' home in Byrds Creek, Richland County, one of unknown sex in April 2001 and the other, a fullterm girl, January 14.
Police arrested her in Abilene, Texas, Saturday where she had moved with a friend June 2.
She is being held on 50,000 dollars bail on a charge of first-degree reckless homicide and hiding a corpse in the death of the infant born in January.
Scott told police she did not tend to the baby, and it died after 30 minutes.
She said the baby had to die, according to the criminal complaint.
The woman's parents, William and Nancy Scott, found the decomposing body of the first baby in her closet after they went looking for the source of a foul odor in their house.
Scott told investigators she had moved that body around before she moved to Texas, sometimes in the closet at the Byrds Creek house, in the trunk of her car and in the closet of her apartment in Richland Center, the complaint said.
The sheriff released no other details about the second baby.
Palestinian security forces returned Monday to the positions they held in the Gaza Strip before the outbreak of the 33-month Palestinian uprising as Israel removed all major checkpoints in the coastal territory, a Palestinian security source said.
Police officers took up their positions across the Gaza Strip, enjoying a freedom of movement they have not known since the intifada exploded in September 2000, the source said.
"Palestinian police have taken over all the posts and positions they held before September 28, 2000.
It is the first time they have had freedom of movement with cars and weapons since the start of the intifada," the source said.
The move marked a huge step forward in carrying out the US-backed Middle East "roadmap", which aims to end the months of bloodshed and create a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Following the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the northern town of Beit Hanoun late Sunday, police took up positions there and in the neighbouring town of Beit Lahiya, he said.
They also deployed along the border with Israel.
The handover is a credibility test for the Palestinian Authority, which must show it means business when it comes to reining in hardline groups plotting attacks on the Jewish state.
In another first in the almost three-year intifada, the Israeli army allowed Palestinians free circulation on the trans-Gaza highway as troops abandoned three major checkpoints across the coastal territory.
Traffic was flowing freely through the Netzarim junction, just south of Gaza City, the Kissufim junction by Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip, and the Guest House junction just south of Deir al-Balah after the army withdrew.
The three military checkpoints on the highway, which runs the entire length of the Gaza Strip, had transformed the trip from north to south, ordinarily a 30-minute ride, into a grinding two or three-hour ordeal and came to symbolise the horrors of occupation.
"Israel has implemented most of the agreement except for a few issues," the source said, pointing out that Israel had still not removed two military observation posts at the Kissufim junction and the Guest House junction.
Although there was free movement along the trans-Gaza highway, several other roads remained temporarily closed, he said.
The Karni-Netzarim road, which runs east-to-west across the route, was still closed as was the section of the highway passing close by Kfar Darom settlement, just south of the Guest House junction, he said, adding both were likely to be opened in the coming weeks.
Another road, leading from the southern border town of Rafah to Khan Yunis, would be opened within 10 days, he said.
Adressing Palestinian complaints, an Israeli military source confirmed troops had installed a gate at the Netzarim crossing and at the southern Guest House junction but said that they were only there for when Jewish settlers needed to use the road.
A ban on Palestinian men under the age of 35 being allowed to move freely was still in force but that was expected to be lifted later on Monday or early Tuesday.
The army also handed over control of Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt to the Palestinians, security sources said.
Six Palestinian police officers were allowed to return to the Palestinian section of the border crossing, which had been taken over by Israeli troops shortly after the start of the uprising.
Under the 1993 Oslo accords, which granted a measure of autonomy to the Palestinians, the Rafah border crossing with Egypt was to be jointly managed by both Israel and the Palestinians, although Israel had final control over the zone.
Although the crossing has, in principle, been open for movement between the two territories -- while being frequently closed by Israeli for reasons rarely explained -- the Palestinian section has been manned by Israel for more than two years.
I wish I could have been at a Pub, or wherever these people convene, to see the reactions from all the Britons who read the Telegraph this morning (emphasis added): Britain's gun laws are aimed at the wrong target, curbing and criminalising legal ownership while failing to tackle huge rises in shooting offences over the past few years, according to an international firearms legislation expert.
Prof Gary Mauser said that Britain was making the same mistake as Canada and Australia in focusing on legal owners - a section of the law-abiding community where gun crimes, such as the Dunblane massacre, were aberrations.
The Home Office and police chiefs should instead tackle the possession of guns in criminal hands, said Prof Mauser, a member of the independent Fraser Institute in Canada.
He has given evidence to select committees of the House of Commons and the Canadian Senate and predicted the escalation of gun crime on Britain's streets.
His warning comes as gun crime incidents are averaging about 29 a day in England and Wales, more than twice the level of when the Labour Government came to power in 1997 .
In the past two years, there have been cases of schoolchildren and a baby, killed or injured by guns.
"I believe that factors of political correctness are at work," he said.
"Police crackdowns, Home Office initiatives and over-regulation of legally held weapons create froth and they may even fool the police themselves into believing they are doing something about gun crime."
Prof Mauser added: "The sad truth is that while the police officers are inspecting farmers' gun cabinets to see if they comply with regulations somewhere in the UK, someone, who has not filled in a firearms certificate form, will be smuggling a gun into the country or selling one to an inner city youth."
Recorded gun crime rose by three per cent to 10,590 incidents in the year to June.
Two-thirds of gun crime takes place in London, Birmingham and Manchester.
It doesn't matter to these people that crime has skyrocketed since the irrational ban on private gun possession went into effect in Great Britain.
Just as long as it's there, they feel safe.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld took part in a Q&A with the troops today that was anything but cozy.
Disgruntled soldiers complained to Rumsfeld about long deployments and a lack of armored vehicles and other equipment.
From the Associated Press : "You go to war with the Army you have," Rumsfeld replied, "not the Army you might want or wish to have."
Spc. Thomas Wilson had asked the defense secretary, "Why do we soldiers have to dig through local landfills for pieces of scrap metal and compromised ballistic glass to up-armor our vehicles?"
Shouts of approval and applause arose from the estimated 2,300 soldiers who had assembled to see Rumsfeld.
"We do not have proper armored vehicles to carry with us north," Wilson, 31, of Nashville, Tenn., concluded after asking again.
Wilson, an airplane mechanic whose unit, the 278th Regimental Combat Team of the Tennessee Army National Guard, is about to drive north into Iraq for a one-year tour of duty, put his finger on a problem that has bedeviled the Pentagon for more than a year.
Rarely, though, is it put so bluntly in a public forum.
Rumsfeld said the Army was sparing no expense or effort to acquire as many Humvees and other vehicles with extra armor as it can.
What is more, he said, armor is not the savior some think it is.
"You can have all the armor in the world on a tank and a tank can (still) be blown up," he said.
Can't say that's the most comforting answer.
From the Associated Press : City residents will vote next year on a proposed weapons ban that would deny handguns to everyone except law enforcement officers, members of the military and security guards.
If passed next November, residents would have 90 days to give up firearms they keep in their homes or businesses.
The proposal was immediately dismissed as illegal by a gun owners group.
Firearms would be allowed only for police officers, security guards, members of the military, and anyone else "actually employed and engaged in protecting and preserving property or life within the scope of his or her employment," according to the measure.
Gun Owners of California, a Sacramento-based lobbying group, quickly called the ban illegal.
Sam Paredes, the group's executive director, said state law bars local governments from usurping the state's authority to regulate firearms.
"The amazing thing is they are going to turn San Francisco into ground zero for every criminal who wants to profit at their chosen profession," Paredes said.
Washington, D.C., is the only major American city that currently bans handgun possession by private citizens.
Andrew Arulanandam, director of public affairs for the National Rifle Association, said San Francisco would be remiss to use that city as a model.
"If gun control worked, Washington, D.C., would be the beacon.
However, it's the murder capital of the United States," he said.
If approved, the weapons ban would take effect in January 2006.
Quote of the day: "Firearms would be allowed only for police officers, security guards, members of the military, and anyone else actually employed and engaged in protecting and preserving property or life within the scope of his or her employment."
So preserving property or life within the scope of self-defense and protection of the home is not allowed.
No thanks.
If the people vote for this measure it will be hard to sympathize with them when robbery and rape rates skyrocket, because burgulars will know homes are not guarded, and rapists will know the only thing stopping them from the victim they desire is their own inhibitions.
From the Associated Press : A baby girl who had been cut out of her mother's womb was found after a frantic search, and authorities arrested the woman they say strangled the mother and stole the child.
The baby was in good condition Saturday.
Lisa M. Montgomery, 36, of Melvern, Kan., was arrested later Friday and charged with kidnapping resulting in death.
Bobbie Jo Stinnett, 23, was found Thursday in a pool of blood inside her small white home in Skidmore, a town in northwest Missouri.
Stinnett, who was eight months pregnant, had earlier been talking with her mother on the phone, and hung up saying a woman she had chatted with online had just arrived at her door, authorities said.
U.S. Attorney Todd Graves said Montgomery contacted Stinnett through an online message board, and authorities zeroed in on her using computer forensics.
Montgomery was seeking to buy a dog from Stinnett, who raised rat terriers, he said.
According to the criminal complaint, Montgomery traveled about 40 miles to Topeka, Kan., on Thursday to go shopping.
Her husband received a call from her saying she had gone into labor and given birth.
The next day, authorities say, Montgomery confessed that she strangled Stinnett from behind, cut her open, removed the baby and cut her umbilical cord.
I don't understand how we can call this fetus-thing that was ripped from a mother's womb a "child" or "girl" in a society that sanctions partial-birth abortion.
If you can't charge someone for killing a fetus via abortion during the eighth month, then surely you can't make a big deal about a woman who kidnapped a fetus that survived the knifing.
On a less-sarcastic note, I pray for the family of the 23-year-old woman.
No one should have to die because some crazy nut wanted a child and decided to kill for it.
If there's any good news in this story, it's that Victoria Jo will live on and carry her mother's memory.
Question for the pro-choicers: Being that it isn't yet the ninth month, can we still charge the killer with kidnapping?
Feminists have a reason to celebrate today as an appeals court just threw out the convictions of their martyr, Andrea Yates, by ruling that one of the prosecutor's expert witnesses gave false testimony at her trial.
Yates, in case you have forgotten, is the women from Texas who heinously drowned her five kids, aged 6 months to 7 years, one by one, in her bathtub.
Liberal feminist organizations rushed to Yates' defense, most notably the National Organization for Women, which provided money for her defense fund and held candlelight vigils.
No such ceremonies were held for her five dead children.
In 2002 a jury sentenced Yates to life in prison for the deaths of three of her children.
She was not tried in the deaths of the other two.
Today the 1st Court of Appeals overturned the convictions and ordered a new trial.
We can only hope for the same verdict.
The blood red nation of China is trying to curb the effects of a devastating 20-year-old policy that outlawed women from having more than one child.
As a result, only about 100 girls are born for every 119 boys, because couples traditionally favor males.
Beijing has set a goal of reversing the imbalance by 2010, and to do this they will outlaw the selective abortion of female fetuses to correct an imbalance in the ratio of boys to girls.
So now by killing the males they can hopefully narrow the gender gap.
What a country!
From Reuters : Sex-selective abortion is already banned but technologies such as ultrasound have made it easier to know a baby's gender in advance, increasing the chances for aborting girls.
Despite a desire to curb the sex imbalance and a relaxation in recent years that allows rural families to have two children if the first is a girl, China has shown no sign of abandoning the one-child policy and cracks down on those who advocate against it.
One such activist is Mao Hengfeng, who was dismissed in 1988 from her job at a Shanghai soap factory after becoming pregnant a second time.
Last April, the Shanghai public security bureau sentenced her to 18 months in a labor camp for campaigning against the one-child policy.
In other news: feminists still believe they're second-class citizens in the United States.
A CNN poll asks readers to rate the president's State of the Union speech last night.
After 90,000 votes Mr. Bush has a 'C-C+' grade across the board, meaning 45,000 Republicans gave him an 'A' and 45,000 liberals failed him.
But a new CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll suggests more people side with the president.
70 percent of respondents said Bush's policies on health care were positive, while 66 percent approved of the president's plan for Social Security.
78 percent said U.S. policy in Iraq is hading in the right direction, a 12 percentage point increase over pre-speech polling.
Overall, 77 percent of respondents said Bush is taking the country in the right direction after the speech compared to 67 percent beforehand.
And who wasn't moved by the embrace of mother of a soldier killed in Iraq and the daughter of a man killed by Saddam Hussein's regime?
It was a beautiful moment last night that resulted in the longest standing ovation of the evening.
Today the parents of Marine Corps Sgt. Byron Norwood said the Iraqi woman, Safia Taleb al-Suhail, had turned and introduced herself just before the speech.
"She thanked us for our son's sacrifice and made sure we knew the people in Iraq were grateful for the sacrifices that were made not just by our son, but by all of them," Janet Norwood said.
It was an uplifting moment suggesting that maybe we're doing the right thing.
I talked to a friend currently serving in Iraq last night and he says morale is up and the presence of troops is a positive thing.
They just can't pack up and leave.
Not just yet.
We must be patient.
We've all lived next to some pretty undesirable people at one point or another, but I can't imagine anyone being worse than this.
A Colorado judge ordered two teen-age girls to pay about $900 for the distress a neighbor said they caused by giving her home-made cookies adorned with paper hearts.
The pair were ordered to pay $871.70 plus $39 in court costs after neighbor Wanita Renea Young, 49, filed a lawsuit complaining that the unsolicited cookies, left at her house after the girls knocked on her door, had triggered an anxiety attack that sent her to the hospital the next day.
Taylor Ostergaard, then 17, and Lindsey Jo Zellitte, 18, paid the judgment on Thursday after a small claims court ruling by La Plata County Court Judge Doug Walker, a court clerk said on Friday.
The girls baked cookies as a surprise for several of their rural Colorado neighbors on July 31 and dropped off small batches on their porches, accompanied by red or pink paper hearts and the message: "Have a great night."
The Denver Post newspaper reported on Friday that the girls had decided to stay home and bake the cookies rather than go to a dance where there might be cursing and drinking.
Zebra Report has a picture of the good-intentioned girls.
Maybe delinquency does pay off better.
From the Associated Press : A lone gunman opened fire with an assault rifle Sunday inside a crowded mall in upstate New York, wounding one person before running out of ammunition and being subdued by employees, authorities said.
The gunman began shooting inside the Hudson Valley Mall shortly after 3 p.m. in Kingston, nearly 90 miles north of New York City.
The 24-year-old gunman went into a Best Buy store and started firing.
When he ran out of ammunition, he was captured by mall employees, police said.
Ulster Town Supervisor Fred Wadnola identified the gunman's weapon as an AK-47 assault rifle.
"Everyone was running and screaming.
Then I heard the shots," witness Heather Craig told Fox News.
Whoa!
You're telling me someone was able to take an AK-47 "assault rifle" into a mall and injure people?!
But it's New York.
They have gun laws!
And because New York has such strict gun laws - meaning citizens are prohibited from concealing weapons - a gunner can use bag-toting shoppers as target practice because guns laws keep mall shoppers at his mercy.
Had an armed civilian been inside the mall, perhaps he could have intervened before the suspect began injuring people before he ran out of ammo.
But not in New York.
Because there people like me who have never had so much as a traffic ticket in life cannot conceal weapons, unlike in Florida, where you walk past us everyday without even knowing it.
From the St. Pete Times : Some Florida legislators want to give people the right to shoot an attacker in a public place.
A House committee voted Wednesday to allow people to shoot to kill in self-defense if they are attacked "in any other place where he or she has a right to be."
Sponsored by Rep. Dennis Baxley, an Ocala Republican, the bill (HB 249) passed 13-0.
State law defines deadly force as that which is likely to cause "death or great bodily harm," such as firing a gun at a person or a vehicle.
Florida courts consider deadly force a last resort and have held that a person being attacked has the "duty to use every reasonable means to avoid the danger, including retreat, prior to using deadly force."
But this legislation says a person who is under attack in a public place "has no duty to retreat."
"Law-abiding people should not be told that if they are attacked, they should turn around and run," NRA lobbyist Marion Hammer told lawmakers.
"This bill gives back rights that have been eroded and taken away by a judicial system that at times appears to give preferential treatment to criminals."
Baxley held up a stack of more than 800 e-mails from Floridians who he said have written him to support the bill.
He said 62 House members, a majority, have endorsed his bill, and supporters include Attorney General Charlie Crist and groups representing Florida sheriffs, police chiefs and police officers.
Rep. Jeff Kottkamp, R-Cape Coral, said the bill reminded him of a sign he saw on a constituent's house while campaigning door-to-door.
Kottkamp said the sign, next to a doorbell, showed a smoking .44-Magnum handgun and the words: "We don't dial 911."
This is great news for Florida gun carriers because now to defend yourself you don't have to first make sure a "duty to retreat" is impossible.
Currently, if one's life is threatened he/she must make sure it is impossible to escape before using deadly force on an attacker.
Slobodan Milosevic's wife will go on trial next week on charges of mismanaging state property during the former president's rule, a court said Thursday.
Mirjana Markovic, the power behind the scenes during Milosevic's 13-year reign, is accused of illegally providing their grandson's nanny with a state-owned luxury apartment in Belgrade in 2000.
The Belgrade district court said that Markovic will be tried along with 10 other Milosevic-era officials who face similar charges of ``inappropriate use of state property'' that carry a sentence of up to five years in jail.
The trial will start on March 13, the court said.
Milosevic and his wife wielded enormous power in Yugoslavia for more than a decade before he was swept out of power after a popular revolt in October 2000.
The post-Milosevic government later extradited him to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands.
Since then, many of Milosevic's political and business allies as well as his two children have been accused of crimes.
Markovic, the leader of the neo-communist Yugoslav Left party, lost her parliamentary immunity from prosecution after she failed to become a deputy in the parliament of Serbia and Montenegro, the country that last month succeeded Yugoslavia.
The charismatic leader of Turkey's governing party was named prime minister Tuesday, a step that probably boosts chances that the United States will get permission to deploy troops in the country along Iraq's northern border.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who favors the deployment, hinted that he will reshuffle the Cabinet, but gave no indication if he would purge officials who opposed letting in the troops as analysts have suggested he might do.
Erdogan is extremely popular in Turkey and is likely be one of the few leaders with enough clout to unite his party and gain public support for allowing in the U.S. troops.
Turks overwhelmingly oppose a war -- by 94 percent, according to some polls.
Earlier this month, the Turkish parliament shocked the United States by rejecting the deployment by just four votes.
Erdogan has hinted that he will resubmit the resolution for approval, which could take another week.
The United States is pressing Turkey to act quickly.
Ships carrying equipment for U.S. troops are already waiting off the Turkish coast.
In Washington, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers told a Pentagon news conference Tuesday that the United States would ``have a northern option whether or not Turkey fully supports all our requests.
``I'm not going to talk about the operational ways of doing it, but just be assured there will be a northern option,'' he said.
Also in Washington, Turkish Ambassador Farouk Logoglu told The Associated Press that the U.S. and Turkish militaries were holding informal discussions on the use of Turkish airspace.
The troop-basing resolution would allow the United States to use Turkish airspace.
If the resolution is not passed, Washington would likely want to use the airspace for strikes against Iraq and for airlifting troops to northern Iraq.
Refusing access to the troop deployment would mean Turkey would lose a US$15 billion U.S. aid package that Washington has offered to help cushion the country's economy if there is war.
It would also threaten Turkey's possible role in the future of Iraq.
Turkey, which fears northern Iraqi Kurds may declare independence in the aftermath of a war, has been pressing for a say if Saddam Hussein is ousted.
Secession by Iraqi Kurds could inspire Turkey's rebel Kurds, who for 15 years have been fighting for autonomy.
After he was elected, Erdogan said Turkey wanted assurances from the United States on its role in Iraq.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday there had been talks that Turkish troops could be deployed ``a short distance from their border to try to avoid refugee infiltration.''
Iraqi Kurds fear that Turkish troops could move deep into the autonomous enclave in northern Iraq and have threatened clashes.
Rumsfeld also said that like Turkey, the United States doesn't want to see a breakaway state: ``Our interest, needless to say, is to see that Iraq remains a single country,'' he said at the Pentagon news conference.
Prime Minister Abdullah Gul resigned earlier Tuesday to make way for Erdogan, who won a parliamentary seat in by-elections Sunday.
Gul will remain as a caretaker prime minister until President Ahmet Necdet Sezer approves Erdogan's Cabinet, a move that could happen as early as Wednesday.
Erdogan said he would submit his Cabinet list to the president ``as soon as possible,'' and leaders of Erdogan's Justice and Development Party met Tuesday evening.
When asked about possible changes in the Cabinet, Erdogan said: ``Perhaps there will be a small amount of change, a certain number of revisions.''
Gul's resignation had been long expected.
Erdogan heads the party but was constitutionally barred from running in November elections because he was jailed in 1999 for anti-secular activities.
The Justice party changed the constitution after taking power in the elections.
Erdogan, a leader of Turkey's pro-Islamic movement when he was jailed, said he moderated his policies in prison.
His party considers itself conservative and no longer uses the word 'Islamic' in its literature.
He now also advocates letting in U.S. troops for a war against Iraq even though it is a fellow Muslim state.
Unlike the soft-spoken Gul, Erdogan has a reputation as a fighter.
``Erdogan will be willing to engage in a bruising confrontation in a way that Gul was not willing to,'' said Bulent Aliriza, an analyst at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.
``If Erdogan decides that for his own reasons, and not U.S. pressure, he wants this, he will push it through.''
Tensions over the basing agreement spilled over into parliament Tuesday when opposition deputy Ufuk Ozkan shouted ``You are all American lackeys!'' at members of Erdogan's party, the Anatolia news agency reported.
A furious Justice party member, Fehmi Husrev Kutlu, rushed toward Ozkan, bumping into him and sending his eyeglasses flying, Anatolia reported.
Other legislators surrounded the two to head off a brawl.
U.S. and British troops were moving on the strategic southern port city of Basra Saturday after a massive aerial assault pounded Baghdad at dawn.
Thousands of beleaguered Iraqi soldiers in the south surrendered in the face of the major push.
The battle for Basra, an oil hub of some 1.3 million people, was underway by midday, with coalition troops trying to surround Iraqi positions and force a surrender.
U.S. aircraft bombed Iraqi tanks holding bridges close to the city.
Iraqi forces responded with artillery fire.
Earlier Saturday, Baghdad was again targeted, one day after a massive U.S. aerial bombardment in which more than 300 Tomahawk cruise missiles rained down on the capital.
The nine-story Security Headquarters in the Iraqi capital took a direct hit, strewing bricks, masonry and glass across the street in the al-Salhiya neighborhood of central Baghdad.
As coalition troops advanced, an entire Iraqi army division gave itself up, U.S. military officials said.
The division -- the 51st Infantry Division, with 8,000 men and as many as 200 tanks, a key unit in the defense of Basra -- was the largest defection in a day when Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's forces showed signs of crumbling.
Allied successes were marred by the collision of two Royal Navy helicopters over the Persian Gulf in which all six British crew members and one American were killed.
Saturday morning, American Marines and British troops rumbled along the main road from the Kuwaiti border to Basra, Highway 80, nicknamed the ``Highway of Death'' during the 1991 Gulf War, when U.S. airstrikes wiped out an Iraqi military convoy along it.
American units advancing west of Basra have already secured the Rumeila oil field, whose daily output of 1.3 million barrels makes it Iraq's most productive.
Until Basra, U.S. and British troops had encountered little resistance, even when they seized nearby Umm Qasr, and moved to secure key oil fields.
Iraqis mostly fought back with small arms, pistols, machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades.
Regular Iraqi forces had withdrawn from Basra but elements of Saddam's security forces are continuing to resist, British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said Saturday.
Other units moved into airfield complexes in western Iraq believed to have Scud missiles capable of reaching Israel, and possibly weapons of mass destruction.
Early Saturday, more units were waiting in Kuwait to smash through any Iraqi resistance.
Hundreds of tanks, armored personnel carriers, Humvees and trucks were lined up in parallel columns waiting in single-file to cross the Iraqi-Kuwait border.
By early next week, U.S. ground forces led by the Army's 3rd Infantry Division are likely to be at the outskirts of Baghdad, where they could face greater danger from the Republican Guard, some commanders said.
After weeks of delay, Turkey relented and agreed to let combat aircraft fly over its territory.
At the same time, however, Turkey sent 1,000 troops into northern Iraq, and the government said it would send more to prevent Iraqi Kurds from creating an independent state.
The United States strongly opposes any unilateral move by Turkey into northern Iraq.
A Turkish military spokesman on Saturday denied Turkish troops had crossed into Iraq.
The United States and Britain suffered their first casualties Thursday and Friday as they pushed into Iraq, with two U.S. Marines killed in combat and another eight British and four American Marines dying in a helicopter crash that appeared to be accidental.
There was no clear figure of Iraqi casualties.
Australian commandos, who have been operating deep in Iraq, destroyed a command and control post and killed a number of soldiers, according to the country's defense chief, Gen. Peter Cosgrove.
In an address Saturday, Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf told Iraqis that fighting had been ``fierce.''
He said most of those captured by allied forces were civilians, not soldiers.
He claimed Iraqi troops had destroyed five tanks.
He said more than 200 Iraqis had been injured, including women, children and other civilians who were being treated at five hospitals in Baghdad.
Hoon said Saddam's regime was crumbling under the pressure of a huge air assault.
``As last night's dramatic television coverage showed, the lights stayed on in Baghdad, but the instruments of tyranny are collapsing,'' he said.
Iraqi Vice President Taha Yasin Ramadan, speaking on Iraqi Radio, was quoted by the British Broadcasting Corp.'s monitoring service as accusing Britain and the United States of working to ``eliminate'' the state of Iraq.
In a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, Ramadan said, ``It is also regrettable and deplorable that the (U.N.) General Secretariat has not issued any statement or reaction that condemns or deplores this aggression.''
Despite the heavy bombing, which the U.S. Central Command said targeted military command and control installations, the Iraqi regime gave no sign of quitting.
Bombers have also hit targets in the northern cities of Mosul, Kirkuk and Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
The Iraqi government released a video of Saddam, in uniform, meeting with his son Qusai, the commander of the Republican Guard, and the defense minister, Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmad.
It was unclear when the video was made.
U.S. intelligence officials said the Iraqi command and control system was in disarray, and U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said, ``The regime is starting to lose control of their country.''
Kurdish militiamen and U.S. special operations troops linked up with more than 1,000 U.S. Army paratroopers Thursday to secure the area around a strategic air strip, as the first large coalition ground force in northern Iraq began opening another front against Saddam Hussein's regime.
The Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade , including elite Army Rangers, jumped out of low-flying C-17 transport planes under cover of darkness Wednesday and secured a snow-dusted airfield, which will be used to bring in supplies and support personnel.
The airdrop -- one of the biggest paratroop drops in decades -- was a dramatic entry for ground troops into a region where only small groups of U.S. special forces have been operating.
Coalition airstrikes have been hitting Iraqi military forces and other strategic targets in the north.
``This tightens the noose against Saddam's forces battling coalition forces to the south,'' Brig. Gen. James Parker, commander of U.S. forces in the north.
``And it may also serve as a warning to Turkish forces.''
Giving cover for the deployment, U.S. warplanes struck Iraqi ground troops and bunkers in northern Iraq.
Three waves of combat planes from the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt hit ``ground troops, command and control bunkers, artillery positions and ... a surface to air missile battery,'' said Lt. John Oliveira, the ship's public affair officer.
Around dawn Thursday, strikes resumed, with a massive explosion just outside the Kurdish zone close to the village of Kalak.
Warplanes pounded forward Iraqi positions in the hills overlooking Chamchamal, 35 kilometers (22 miles) east of the key oil city of Kirkuk.
Later Thursday, Kurdish troops in Chamchamal advanced their positions between government-controlled and rebel-controlled areas, taking over a Iraqi check point on their front with no fighting at this point, witnesses said.
Early Thursday, Kurdish fighters closed off a highway and roads near the airstrip where troops were said to be arriving, outside the town of Bashur, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) northeast of the Kurd-controlled city of Irbil and 30 miles (50 kilometers) south of the Turkish border.
From the highway, dusted from a recent snow, a flashing light from the airstrip's control tower was visible in the distance, and three helicopters could be seen landing, flying with nearly all their lights extinguished.
Future airlifts into the area will include supplies and support personnel for the 173rd's fighters, defense officials said.
The airfield's 6,700-foot (2,042-meter) runway is long enough to land C-17s and other U.S. military cargo planes.
Lt. Col. Thomas Collins, a spokesman for the U.S. Army's Southern European Task Force, refused to say whether the paratroopers deployed directly from Italy into Iraq or had taken a different route.
The matter immediately sparked controversy in Italy, where there is a strong anti-war movement.
The country's parliament voted this month to allow U.S.-led coalition forces to use Italian air space and military bases -- but not for directs attacks on Iraq.
Pentagon officials have said for weeks they would have U.S. forces in northern Iraq to open another front against Saddam's forces.
The vast majority of the coalition ground troops in Iraq are moving toward Baghdad from the south after entering from Kuwait.
Pentagon officials had hoped to have the Army's 4th Infantry Division invade Iraq from the north, but Turkey balked at allowing up to 62,000 U.S. troops on its soil to prepare for that option.
The use of the 173rd shows the military has shifted to a smaller, lighter force.
Military officials say they would have liked to have secured key oil fields around the northern cities of Mosul and Kirkuk -- and perhaps the cities themselves -- by now.
Though no hostilities were expected during the deployment, the 173rd decided to parachute in rather then ferry troops in by plane so that a significant combat force could mass almost immediately to protect itself, officers said, according to a U.S. reporter traveling with the 173rd.
``Kirkuk is key.
The Iraqi's want it, the Kurds want it, the Turks want it and various other ethnic groups also want it,'' Maj. Mike Hastings said.
``What this drop means is that we can secure it until we are relieved by other forces.''
Besides Mosul and Kirkuk, another key target in northern Iraq is Tikrit, Saddam's hometown and the tribal center for most of his inner circle.
Most of the Adnan Division of the Republican Guard relocated from the Mosul area to the Tikrit area shortly before the war began.
Another key mission for the 173rd could be to keep order in northern Iraq, which is controlled by two semi-autonomous Kurdish factions but also includes several splinter groups and a base for the al-Qaida-linked Ansar al-Islam.
Turkey has said it may send more troops into northern Iraq to prevent refugees from moving north, while U.S. officials have said they advised Turkey against sending large additional forces into northern Iraq.
Former Danish international Stig Toefting dropped his appeal of an assault conviction and will serve a four-month jail sentence, Denmark's TV2 reported Monday.
Toefting was convicted in October 2002 of assaulting a pair of restaurant workers during a night out with national squad teammates in the capital, Copenhagen.
He was sentenced to four months in prison, but appealed.
The hearing was scheduled for April 10.
TV2, quoting Toefting's lawyer Anders Nemeth, reported that that 33-year-old midfielder was ready to serve his sentence immediately.
Neither Toefting or Nemeth were immediately available for comment.
Earlier this month, Toefting said English Premier League club Bolton let him go so he could prepare for the appeal.
It was unclear whether Toefting would return to Bolton after serving his sentence.
The club said it wasn't aware of Toefting's decision to drop his appeal.
Toefting transferred to Bolton in February 2002 from German club Hamburg.
Toefting has been convicted before.
In 1999 he was given a 20-day suspended sentence for assaulting a fan who berated him for playing with German club Duisburg.
The popular player -- known for his temperament and the words ``No Regret'' tattooed across his chest -- retired from Denmark's national team after it was knocked out in the second round of the 2002 World Cup.
Toefting joined the Danish squad in 1993 and has 41 caps.
U.S. soldiers moved to capture Baghdad's Saddam International Airport early Friday and fought running battles with Iraqi defenders along the city's southern fringes.
``A vise is closing on the regime,'' U.S. President George W. Bush said.
Some frontline units went on heightened alert against the threat of chemical weapons, ordered to wear rubber boots and suits despite temperatures that soared into the 90s.
There was fierce fighting in Kut, to the south of Baghdad, where desperate Iraqis armed with rifles charged tanks in a suicide raid.
``We mowed down'' the attackers, said Lt. Col. B.P. McCoy.
Despite declarations that more tough fighting lies ahead, the top U.S. military official indicated there may not be an all-out battle for Baghdad.
Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, suggested isolating members of the old regime in the capital -- cut off from the rest of the country -- while an ``interim administration'' is put in place to begin work on a postwar government.
A meeting to organize an interim government could be held in Iraq within a week, a senior Pentagon official said Thursday night.
For the first time in the war, large parts of Baghdad lost electricity.
The cause was not known.
Myers told reporters at a Pentagon briefing that Americans had not targeted the power grid.
Tracer rounds lit the night sky and artillery boomed near the airport a few kilometers (miles) from the heart of President Saddam Hussein's capital of 5 million people.
At one stage, it appeared that U.S. forces had taken control of the airport, ``and then it got more confusing with continued fighting, Myers said Thursday night.
Capture of the airport would give American and British troops a facility for airlifting equipment and troops to Baghdad.
Along the city's southern edge, U.S. tanks and Bradley vehicles destroyed at least seven Iraqi armored personnel carriers and more than 15 Iraqi tanks in fighting that went on for more than four hours.
Two weeks into the war, American commanders reported a string of successes -- on the battlefield and within an Iraqi population initially reluctant about embracing invading troops.
Kurdish fighters in the north chipped in, when a top leader suggested they may agree not to seek control of the northern city of Kirkuk.
There were battlefield setbacks, as well.
Two Marines were killed and one injured in the close-quarters fighting in Kut.
And an Army soldier investigating a destroyed tank in central Iraq was killed by friendly fire when he was mistaken for an Iraqi, the military said.
U.S. defense officials also were investigating whether a Navy Hornet jet that crashed Wednesday was shot down by a U.S. Patriot missile.
The Navy was searching for the pilot Thursday.
The overall toll of American troops dead passed 50, and Bush visited a Marine camp, which has lost 13 -- more than any other installation.
``He's in heaven,'' the commander in chief told the family of one fallen Marine in a private moment.
To the cheers of thousands earlier in a speech, he vowed victory, and said, ``A vise is closing on the regime.''
Iraqi officials issued the latest in a series of exhortations in Saddam's name.
``Fight them with your hands.
God will disgrace them,'' they said, referring to invading American and British troops.
But the daily urgings seemed increasingly at odds with the military situation across the country, and Myers said Saddam had lost control of 45 percent of Iraq's territory.
As conventional units fought their way to the outskirts of the capital, officials said special forces had raided the Tharthar presidential palace near Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
Documents were seized at the site north of Baghdad, said Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks at U.S. Central Command in the Persian Gulf, but no ranking members of the regime were found.
``That's all right, he added, ``there's other operations ongoing.''
To the far north, U.S. special forces and Kurdish militiamen captured the town of Bardarash and a nearby bridge, one of few routes into the city of Mosul near government-held oil fields.
Iraqis had held the town for 13 years.
In the country's southern region, British forces penetrated closer to the center of Basra, and warplanes dropped 500-pound (225-kilogram) and 1,000-pound (450-kilogram) laser-guided bombs on an Iraqi intelligence complex.
Die-hard defenders have held out for days inside the city of 1.3 million.
American officials cited continuing examples of Iraqis cooperating with invading troops.
In Najaf, they said a prominent cleric under house arrest by the Iraqi government had urged the population not to interfere with the operations of American or British forces.
A small group of Iraqi defenders has been holding out inside the city in a mosque, considered a Shiite holy site, and local clerics said one religious leader had recently arrived in hopes of arranging for their safe passage out of the shrine.
Ground forces closed in on Baghdad from separate southern approaches, the Army from the southeast and Marines from the southwest, in advances begun Tuesday night.
American and British helicopters and planes bombed positions in Kut, and Marines and Iraqis lobbed grenades at close quarters.
Between 10 and 15 Iraqis armed only with rifles charged Marine tanks in the suicide charge.
Two U.S. Marines died in the fighting -- and a medic who tried to save one of them sorrowfully buried his resuscitation equipment on the spot.
Army forces rolled past dozens of dead Iraqi soldiers and bombed-out hulks of Iraqi military equipment as they made their way toward Baghdad from the area around Karbala.
Many more Iraqi soldiers surrendered to the overwhelming force of the Americans, and were shuttled to the rear.
At the same time they worried about chemical weapons attacks, Brooks disclosed that a special operations force in the southwestern desert had found a number of bottles ``marked in strange ways.''
He said an investigation was under way.
Toyota Motor Corp. said Tuesday it will promote Akio Toyoda, a grandson of the company's founder who is widely viewed as a candidate to some day head Japan's largest automaker.
Managing director Toyoda, 46, grandson of Kiichiro Toyoda and the eldest son of Toyota honorary chairman Shoichiro Toyoda, will become one of 14 senior managing directors under a streamlined management system set to be introduced after a shareholders' meeting in June, the company said in a statement.
Toyoda, who joined Toyota, based in Toyota city, central Japan, in 1984, spearheaded the automaker's Internet and telematics business -- a technology that puts wireless communications into vehicles.
Considered a candidate for future Toyota president, Toyoda oversees its China business, a critical market for the automaker.
Toyoda has been on the star track for years.
When he joined the board in 2000, he was its youngest member.
Under a reform led by President Fujio Cho, the membership of Toyota's board of directors will be slashed to 27 from 58.
Executive vice presidents will be reduced to seven from nine.
The new system is designed to ``speed up decision-making and operations,'' Toyota spokesman Shigeru Hayakawa said.
Toyota's top posts held by Cho and Chairman Hiroshi Okuda remain unchanged.
Kiichiro Toyoda founded the automaker in 1937, transforming the loom manufacturer started by his father into an automaker.
U.S. forces tightened their grip throughout Baghdad, entering the city for the first time from the north, seizing a military airport and battling snipers and Republican Guard fighters.
Meanwhile, the U.S. military faced sharp criticism over assaults that killed three foreign journalists.
Pentagon officials said Tuesday they didn't know whether Iraqi President Saddam Hussein died in the U.S. airstrike on a Baghdad neighborhood the day before.
The strike destroyed three nearby houses and killed at least two people.
U.S. Marines battled snipers as they fought deeper into the capital from the east.
They seized the Rasheed Airport and captured enough ammunition for an estimated 3,000 troops.
Ominously, they also took a prison where they found U.S. Army uniforms and chemical weapons suits possibly belonging to American POWs.
Some army units routed Iraqi fighters from a Republican Guard headquarters inside the capital.
Others discovered a 12-room complex inside a cave, complete with white marble floors and fluorescent lighting.
Members of the U.S. Army's V Corps opened up a new front by entering Baghdad from the north.
The toll on Iraqi civilians four days after Americans first penetrated the Baghdad outskirts is unknown.
But the World Health Organization said Baghdad's hospitals were running out of supplies to treat the burns, shrapnel wounds and spinal injuries caused by the fighting.
Iraqi officials, however, remained defiant, saying Iraq's forces would never surrender to American forces: ``They will be burnt,'' said Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf.
In central Baghdad, a Reuters cameraman and a cameraman for Spain's Telecinco died when an American tank fired on the Palestine Hotel.
``The incident ... raises questions about the judgment of the advancing U.S. troops who have known all along that this hotel is the main base for almost all foreign journalists in Baghdad,'' Reuters Editor-in-Chief Geert Linnebank said.
Tareq Ayyoub, a journalist with Al-Jazeera, died when a U.S. warplane bombed the Arab-language satellite television's office.
An Abu Dhabi TV office in Baghdad also was hit.
Al-Jazeera categorically denied that its Baghdad bureau had been used by Iraqi forces to fire on U.S. troops.
U.S. Central Command said it fired on the TV office and the hotel after U.S. forces came under ``significant'' fire from those buildings.
Associated Press photographer Jerome Delay said he watched from the top floor of the hotel as American tanks took up positions on the bridge.
``All the shooting was concentrated on the bridge and across the river,'' where U.S. forces were located, he said.
It was not clear whether any Iraqi leader had been killed in the airstrike targeting Saddam in an upscale Baghdad neighborhood.
Iraqi rescue workers pulled two bodies from the rubble but said the toll could be as high as 14.
``I don't know whether he survived,'' U.S President George W. Bush said of Saddam at a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
``The only thing I know is that he's losing power.''
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Mohammed Al-Douri, said Tuesday he believes that Saddam is alive, although al-Douri acknowledged he has not communicated with Baghdad.
Bush and Blair sought to minimize their differences over who should govern and rebuild Iraq.
Blair favors a stronger U.N. role than Bush.
``There will be a vital role for the U.N. in the reconstruction of Iraq,'' Blair said.
``But the key is that Iraq in the end will be run by the Iraqi people.''
In northern Iraq, Kurdish forces tightened their ring around Kirkuk on Tuesday, following heavy coalition airstrikes on Iraqi fronts.
Kurdish militia took control of Sekamian plateau, about 10 kilometers (six miles) north of Kirkuk, Kurdish media reported.
The area affords a commanding view of the city and the vast oil fields of Iraq's No. 2 oil region.
The U.S. military said two planes had been lost.
An A-10 ``Warthog'' warplane was shot down near Baghdad, believed to be the first fixed-wing aircraft downed by an Iraqi surface-to-air missile since the war began.
U.S. Central Command said the pilot ejected, was recovered by ground forces and was in good condition.
A U.S. F-15E jet fighter also went down early Monday and a search was under way for its two-man crew, the military announced Tuesday.
Officials did not say whether the plane was shot down or crashed accidentally.
British forces in southern Iraq worked to restore order in the heavily looted streets of Basra, as desperate citizens swarmed water tanker trucks the day after British soldiers claimed Iraq's second largest city.
British forces also began establishing the country's first postwar administration Tuesday, granting a local sheik power to set up an administrative committee representing the groups in the region.
Iraq's U.N. Ambassador Mohammed Al-Douri, the first Iraqi official to concede defeat in the U.S.-led war, met privately with Secretary-General Kofi Annan, but refused to talk about rumors that he was planning to leave New York.
``I am sorry,'' he said.
``No Answer.''
``No comment at all.
This is my last word to you,'' he told hordes of journalists who chased him Thursday at his New York residence and U.N. headquarters seeking comment on his talks with the secretary-general, his future and the war.
Asked who should govern Iraq, Al-Douri said: ``I have nothing to do with that.''
Annan also declined to comment on Thursday's meeting with Al-Douri.
With the fall of Baghdad Wednesday, Al-Douri declared ``the game is over'' and expressed hope that the Iraqi people will now be able to live in peace.
He said he had not been in touch with Baghdad.
Beside meeting with Annan, Al-Douri spent several hours during the late morning and afternoon meeting with ambassadors and diplomats in the Delegate's Lounge.
``I wished him good luck but I don't know what he said to the secretary-general and what will be his next steps,'' said Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, who talked with Al-Douri before his own meeting with Annan.
In an interview with The Associated Press Wednesday night, Al-Douri said he will continue to work at the United Nations and had no intention of defecting.
``Defecting from who?'' he asked.
``I think the government has already defected.
There is no more Iraqi government to be defected from.''
Annan said early Thursday -- before meeting Al-Douri -- that in talks with the envoy Monday, ``he didn't ask for an asylum or protection ... (and) he didn't ask me for help with his status.''
``We did talk about what happens, depending on the evolution of things on the ground,'' Annan said.
The ambassador had vehemently defended his country for months as the United States and its allies sought U.N. backing for war on Iraq.
Privately, many U.N. diplomats see him as a respectable colleague.
``I sympathize with his need to create a new life for himself,'' said Britain's U.N. Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock.
Al-Douri taught international law at Baghdad University for over 30 years before becoming a diplomat in 1999, first at the United Nations in Geneva and since early 2001 at U.N. headquarters in New York.
He said in the AP interview he would love to return to teaching but for now he plans to remain at the United Nations.
``Things will be crystalized one day,'' he said.
``What I worried about is that things are settled in the country ... so in the future the Iraqi people will live in peace without sanctions, without wars, without suffering.
This is my message.''
Separately, lawyers who claim that Iraq helped plan the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people asked a judge at a federal court in New York to force Al-Douri to testify in the case and hold the envoy in contempt, saying they worry that he would flee the country.
But U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said Al-Douri still has diplomatic immunity as Iraq's ambassador.
Under U.N. rules, a new Iraqi government would have to ask to represent the country, which the General Assembly would then consider.
``He is still Iraq's ambassador at the United Nations,'' White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said in Washington.
``Legally, that is the way it works at the U.N.''
Larry Klayman, chairman of Judicial Watch, which represent 14 survivors and victims' relatives who have filed a $1.5 billion federal lawsuit against Iraq in Washington, said his organization had served a subpoena on Al-Douri twice, on March 26 and March 28, but said he has not responded.
U.S. District Judge John S. Martin did not immediately rule but scheduled a hearing for next week.
The April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah federal building was the deadliest terrorist strike on American soil at the time.
The suit claims Iraqi officials provided money and training to convicted bomber Timothy McVeigh and conspirator Terry Nichols.
McVeigh was executed in 2001, and Nichols is serving a life sentence.
The dictator Suharto has fallen, the constitution has changed, the media was unshackled, democratic elections held, and East Timor freed.
After Sept. 11, 2001, Indonesia was quick to sign onto U.S. President George W. Bush's global war on terror.
Yet, Washington maintains a 12-year ban on arms sales to the world's most populous Muslim nation with the aim of curbing human rights abuses still happening despite momentous political change.
Frustrated, Jakarta's generals are looking elsewhere to replace antiquated arsenals.
Later this month Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri travels to Moscow to seek the Kremlin's help in modernizing her increasingly obsolete 300,000-member armed forces.
She is also likely to open the way for Russian companies to vie for lucrative deals in the oil and gas sector, long dominated by American and British resource giants.
Although opposite ends of the Earth, Indonesia and Russia have some basic things in common.
Both are geographically sprawling with massive multiethnic populations.
Both are struggling to preserve national unity as they fight separatism and build democracy after the collapse of decades of authoritarian rule.
Both are resource-rich, but face huge economic problems made worse by endemic corruption.
And, currently, both have opposed the U.S.- led war on Iraq.
Indonesia's Foreign Ministry spokesman Marty Natalegawa says Megawati's meeting with Russian President Putin slated for April 21 will touch on the Iraq crisis.
But other diplomats say that issue will serve primarily to bring the two closer together on bottom-line issues such as trade and arms sales.
Analysts worry that Indonesia's military is now so degraded it can no longer control the borders of the far-flung archipelago, allowing for easy infiltration by extremists.
Last year's Bali bombings, which killed 202 people, illustrated the threat of terrorism in Indonesia.
And, broad opposition to the U.S.-led attack on Iraq threatens to lead to a backlash by militant Islamists.
``Nearly everybody in Indonesia sees this Iraq war as completely unnecessary and there is widespread public opposition to U.S. policies,'' said Jusuf Wanadi of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta.
Close ties between Moscow and Jakarta are not unprecedented.
Indonesia relied on Soviet military assistance in the 1950s under Megawati's father and founding President Sukarno, but these were severed after the anti-communist Gen. Suharto seized power in 1965.
The United States quickly became the Southeast Asian country's main weapons supplier, and annual arms sales peaked at US$400 million in the 1980s.
In 1991, however, the U.S. Congress banned this after Indonesian troops killed hundreds of civilians in East Timor.
In 1999, East Timor became free, but only after Indonesian forces laid waste to it as they withdrew after a pro-independence referendum.
The shocking level of destruction prompted U.S. lawmakers to expand the ban to cover almost all military ties with Indonesia.
Since then some in the Bush administration -- particularly Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, a former ambassador to Jakarta and a prime architect of the Iraq war -- have pushed for the ban to be repealed.
So far, U.S. lawmakers have reinstated only a limited officer training program.
But that's far from enough for Indonesia's generals.
``I think the Indonesian military has finally decided that restrictions and conditionalities from Washington are just not worth it,'' said Juwono Sudarsono, a former defense minister.
``So they want to look for alternative sources for planes, helicopters and other hardware.''
Moscow has already had some success in wooing Indonesia as a customer.
Jakarta has recently purchased some Russian weapons, including 10,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles, a squadron of naval Mil-2 helicopters and a dozen BTR-80A amphibious carriers for its marines.
Currently, Indonesia uses short-range Rapier missiles purchased 30 years ago to protect its vital oil and natural gas fields in Sumatra, Borneo and Papua from air attack.
``Replenishing them has been a big problem,'' Sudarsono said.
Air defense commanders want to augment the Rapiers with Russia's impressive long-range S-300 missiles, or shorter-range systems such as the SA-15 Gauntlet or shoulder-fired Igla.
The Air Force is reportedly considering purchasing several squadrons of Sukhoi Su-27 interceptors, considered the world's premier dogfighters.
Previously, Indonesian Air Force commanders preferred Western jets that were compatible with the U.S.-made F-16 fighter-bombers already in the Indonesian inventory.
But neighboring Malaysia's success in integrating Russian MiG-29s and American F/A-18 Hornets persuaded them otherwise, Sudarsono said.
If Megawati does stiff-arm the United States on the weapons issue, it is unlikely relations with Washington will be permanently damaged.
Whatever happens, Indonesia, a mainly Muslim but politically secular state, is natural ally in the struggle against terrorism and religious militancy.
What could be more worrying for Washington is Russia's economic ambitions.
Trade between Indonesia and Russia increased by dlrs 36.2 million to dlrs 203.5 million in 2001 -- the last year for which statistics are available.
Analysts say this can only grow.
The real concerns, though, are in the petroleum sector.
Megawati and Putin are expected to sign agreements to give Russian companies a toehold in Indonesia's oil and gas industry, long dominated by American and British giants such as Exxon Mobil and BP.
A U.S.-sponsored forum that brought Iraqi opposition leaders together to shape the country's postwar government began Tuesday with a U.S. promise not to rule Iraq and concluded with an agreement to meet again in 10 days.
Meeting in the biblical birthplace of the prophet Abraham, delegates from Iraq's many factions discussed the role of religion in the future government and ways to rebuild the country.
But some Shiite Muslim groups boycotted the meeting and thousands protested nearby.
A 13-point statement released after the meeting stressed the need to work toward a democratic Iraq built on the rule of law and equality.
It also called for dissolving Saddam's Baath Party but left open the question of separating church from the state.
Retired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who will head the U.S.-led interim administration in Iraq, opened the conference under a golden-colored tent in the shadows of the 4,000-year-old ziggurat at Ur, a terraced temple platform of the ancient Sumerians.
``What better birthday can a man have than to begin it not only where civilization began but where a free Iraq and a democratic Iraq will begin today?'' said Garner, who turned 65 Tuesday and wore a twin American and Iraqi flag pin on his blue shirt.
White House envoy Zalmay Khalilzad told delegates that the United States has ``no interest, absolutely no interest, in ruling Iraq.''
``We want you to establish your own democratic system based on Iraqi traditions and values,'' Khalilzad said.
``I urge you to take this opportunity to cooperate with each other.''
Participants included Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites from inside the country and others who spent years in exile.
U.S. officials invited the groups, which picked their own representatives.
Many Iraqis boycotted the meeting in opposition to U.S. plans to install Garner atop an interim administration.
Thousands of Shiites -- who constitute Iraq's most populous religious group but were repressed under Saddam Hussein -- demonstrated in nearby Nasiriyah, chanting ``No to America and no to Saddam!''
``Iraq needs an Iraqi interim government.
Anything other than this tramples the rights of the Iraqi people and will be a return to the era of colonization,'' said Abdul Aziz Hakim, a leader of the largest Iraqi Shiite group, the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq.
U.S. officials hope more Iraqis join the process and stressed that this was just the first of many such meetings in Iraq.
The meeting concluded with the delegates voting by show of hands to meet again in 10 days.
A national conference is planned to select the interim administration, perhaps within weeks, a senior U.S. official said on condition of anonymity.
The interim administration could begin handing power back to Iraqi officials within three to six months, but forming a government will take longer, said Maj. Gen. Tim Cross, the top British member of Garner's team.
``One has to go through the process of building from the bottom up, allowing the leadership to establish itself, and then the election process to go through and so forth,'' Cross said.
``That full electoral process may well take longer.''
Garner's Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance is charged with coordinating humanitarian assistance, rebuilding infrastructure shattered by years of war and U.N. sanctions, and gradually handing back power to Iraqis leading a democratically elected government.
Tuesday's meeting was the first step toward that goal after the ouster of Saddam.
Sheik Ayad Jamal Al Din, a Shiite religious leader from Nasiriyah, urged the delegates to craft a secular government, according to a pool report.
But Nassar Hussein Musawi, a schoolteacher, disagreed: ``Those who would like to separate religion from the state are simply dreaming,'' he said.
Iraqi exile Hatem Mukhliss quoted President John F. Kennedy's exhortation, ``Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country,'' and called on Iraqis to write a constitution, establish a legal system and consider what role the army should play.
He asked coalition representatives to address problems of security, electricity and water in Iraq and help rebuild destroyed and looted hospitals.
``Saddam reduced the country to such a state that it was necessary for people to sell off personal possessions,'' Mukhliss said.
``Now it's time to take our country back.''
There are already tensions between the United States and some Iraqi factions.
Kurdish groups appear unwilling to compromise on their demand to expand the border of their autonomous area to include the oil-rich city of Kirkuk and Kurdish parts of the city of Mosul.
That could pose a problem for the United States, because Turkey worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk could lead to aspirations for independence and in turn encourage separatist Kurds in Turkey.
Iraqi opposition leaders fear the United States is trying to force Ahmed Chalabi, head of the London-based umbrella Iraqi National Congress, on them as leader of a new Iraqi administration.
Chalabi was the first top Iraqi opposition leader to be airlifted by the U.S. military into southern Iraq as the fighting wound down, and he and other top members of his group plan to meet soon in Baghdad.
U.S. officials said Chalabi was brought in because he offered forces to the coalition.
Neither Chalabi nor many other leaders of anti-Saddam groups attended Tuesday's meeting, but they sent delegates.
Iraqis protesting the conference said it did not represent their interests.
The protesters held banners written in English and Arabic saying the ``Hawza,'' or the Shiite religious seminary in Najaf, represents them.
Even some of those at the meeting said they did not want Garner leading the interim administration.
``We will press for any Iraqi civilian administration regardless of what the Americans say.
An administration by Garner is not acceptable,'' said Mowaffak al-Rubaie, an Iraqi physician and opposition activist.
He said American officials have outlined what Garner's administration would look like: Each ministry would be headed by an American, either military or civilian.
Each minister would have two American deputies and eight American advisers, plus four Iraqi advisers from inside the country and four Iraqi exiles.
Associated Press writer Patrick McDowell in Kuwait City contributed to this report.
The lawyer for a Russian military journalist convicted of treason filed an appeal Wednesday in an effort to overturn the guilty verdict against his client, who was released on parole earlier this year, news agencies reported.
Grigory Pasko's lawyer Genri Reznik filed the appeal with Russian Supreme Court, the Interfax and ITAR-Tass news agencies reported.
He asked the court to invalidate the verdict and throw out the criminal case against Pasko, they said.
Pasko was sentenced to four years in prison in December 2001 for illegally attending a meeting of top military commanders and taking notes there.
A military court said he intended to pass the notes to Japanese media with which he had worked.
Pasko, whose sentence included time served, was released in January for good behavior after serving more than two-thirds of the sentence.
He has maintained his innocence, saying the military was punishing him for exposing environmental abuses by the Russian navy, including the dumping of radioactive waste into the sea.
Reznik said an initial appeal he lodged the day Pasko was freed never reached the presidium of the Supreme Court, according to Interfax.
The lawyer said the court's military board had refused to launch proceedings on the appeal.
Reznik said he addressed the new appeal directly to Supreme Court Chairman Vyacheslav Lebedev and asked that it not be considered by military judges ``because the military justice system has adopted a biased attitude against Pasko,'' Interfax reported.
The U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Eurasia said Tuesday that the U.S. government won't be involved in choosing subcontractors for American companies named to help rebuild Iraq.
``The way it works is that there have been an initial set of contracts let to US companies, since it's U.S. money.
Those companies can subcontract to any company they want,'' Elizabeth Jones said.
She made the statements after a meeting with the speaker of the Portuguese parliament, Joao Mota Amaral.
``The U.S. government has done what it is going to do: it has opened up the process to international companies.
We can't direct commerce,'' Jones said.
``Once it's a commercial proposition, then international bidding processes come into effect.''
Jones met with Defense Minister Paulo Portas on Tuesday and will meet Foreign Minister Antonio Martins da Cruz before leaving Portugal Wednesday.
About 50 Portuguese companies - mostly in the construction sector -- are applying for subcontracts to help rebuild Iraq, Portuguese media reported.
Many are hoping to reap benefits from Portuguese government support of the U.S.-led war to oust Saddam Hussein.
Also, Portugal hosted a last ditch pre-war summit in the Azores islands for leaders of the United States, Britain and Spain.
Rudolph Giuliani will wed his companion, Judith Nathan, on May 24 in the ex-mayor's old home, Gracie Mansion.
The news was announced Thursday by Giuliani spokeswoman Sunny Mindel.
His successor, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, will perform the ceremony.
Giuliani, 58, proposed to Nathan, a former nurse, during a November business trip to Paris -- five months after he finalized his divorce from Donna Hanover after 20 years of marriage.
In interviews last year, Giuliani said Nathan gave him ``tremendous emotional support'' through his treatment for prostate cancer and as he led the city during the aftermath of the Sept.
11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
``We were close already,'' Giuliani said.
``And then we went through hell together.''
Giuliani and Nathan began appearing in public together in May 2000.
Soon after, he announced that he and Hanover were moving toward legal separation.
During the legal proceedings leading up to the divorce, a judge ruled that Nathan could not visit Gracie Mansion, the official mayoral residence, as long as Giuliani's children lived there.
Giuliani and Hanover have two teenage children, Andrew and Caroline.
The divorce settlement called for Giuliani to pay Hanover more than $6.8 million.
Hanover, 53, is host of a syndicated television show, ``Famous Homes and Hideaways.''
Last month, she and her fiance -- an old high school sweetheart -- invited the press along as they went shopping for wedding bands, saying they are planning a wedding in the New York City area this summer.
Giuliani's first marriage to his second cousin, Regina Peruggi, lasted about 14 years.
It was annulled by the Catholic Church because the couple had not obtained a church dispensation required when second cousins marry.
Nathan divorced wallpaper salesman Bruce Nathan in 1992.
They have a teenage daughter.
The Giuliani-Nathan nuptials will be a first for Bloomberg, who is making an exception from his policy of not performing weddings, said Bloomberg spokesman Ed Skyler.
Giuliani regularly officiated at weddings while in office.
``The mayor is honored by their request,'' Skyler said.
The United States and Britain are preparing a resolution that would give the United Nations a role in humanitarian relief but not peacekeeping in Iraq, a senior official in U.S. President George W. Bush's administration said Friday.
Separately, the United States has decided to divide the military and humanitarian relief mission in Iraq into three parts under American, British and Polish command, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Six European countries have agreed to contribute troops to the British and Polish sectors to create an international stability force, the official said.
The draft resolution would limit the U.N. role to helping with refugees and displaced people, reconstruction and humanitarian assistance, the official said.
The United States and Britain agree on all but a few of the fine details of the resolution, the official said, though there is no timetable on when it would be introduced.
U.N. officials are already in Iraq providing humanitarian relief.
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said this week that the body has no interest in policing a postwar Iraq, although it could contribute to the political resuscitation of the country.
``Take the question of security.
I don't think the U.N. would want to take on that,'' Annan said.
``There has been a suggestion that the U.N. wanted to take over the whole Iraq and run it, which was also not the case.''
What the United Nations could contribute beyond humanitarian assistance was ``political facilitation,'' Annan said.
The proposed draft resolution would probably face resistance from other U.N. Security Council members who have favored a U.N.-convened conference of the kind that helped establish Afghanistan's post-Taliban government.
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld discussed the resolution with Prime Minister Tony Blair and Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon on Friday as Rumsfeld returned from a tour of Iraq, Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf region.
Rumsfeld said afterward he hoped the U.N. would play a role but did not publicly discuss the draft resolution outlining that role.
Hoon, who joined Rumsfeld in a news conference at Heathrow airport, also did not mention the draft resolution.
``We are right to be optimistic about the way forward'' in Iraq, Hoon said.
International stability forces will be sent to Iraq as soon as possible, the U.S. official said, though it was unclear when that would be.
Those troops will work to restore and maintain order and supervise humanitarian projects such as the restoration of water and electricity and delivery of food and medical aid.
The six nations contributing troops are Italy, Spain, Ukraine, Denmark, the Netherlands and Bulgaria, the official said.
Representatives of those countries will meet with British officials May 7 and Polish officials May 22 to determine what forces each country will contribute and whether they will be put under British or Polish command.
The U.S. part of the stability force will be comprised of American troops.
While that portion is likely to consist of a military division -- about 20,000 -- the troop strength of the other two sectors has yet to be determined, the official said.
The international stabilization force would be under the U.S. war commander, Gen. Tommy Franks.
At least initially, the coalition stability forces will augment rather than replace the 135,000 American troops inside Iraq, the official said.
The stability forces will focus on providing security and humanitarian relief while other U.S. troops focus on rooting out leftover members of Saddam Hussein's government and other armed elements in Iraq.
Rumsfeld said, however, that the more troops other countries contribute to the stability effort, the fewer U.S. troops will be needed inside Iraq.
Planning for both the U.N. resolution and the international security force left out France, Germany and Russia, three U.S. allies that vehemently opposed the war in Iraq.
Some of the NATO members who agreed to send troops may want NATO authorization for that action, the official said.
Requests for such authorization will be routed through the alliance's defense planning committee, which does not include France, the official said.
The outlines for the international stability force were decided at a conference Hoon hosted Wednesday with representatives from 16 countries, mostly NATO members.
Other countries including the Philippines, South Korea, Qatar and Australia agreed to send other help such as field hospitals, engineers, explosive ordnance disposal teams or nuclear, biological and chemical weapons experts.
The U.S., British and Polish sectors will be drawn to take into account ethnic, religious, tribal and political factions within Iraq, the official said.
For example, although ethnic Kurds are the majority in large parts of northern Iraq, there are also large numbers of Kurds within Baghdad.
Some Arab countries also want to play a role in the stability operation in Iraq but are reluctant to send troops because of political, religious and ethnic considerations, the official said.
Countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council have offered to donate money for the effort.
Rumsfeld also met Friday with King Abdullah of Jordan, an American ally in the Middle East.
Defense officials say Jordan provided key help in the Iraq war, acting as a staging area for U.S. special operations raids into western Iraq to prevent missiles from being fired at Jordan or Israel.
Rumsfeld did not say what the two discussed.
Police intercepted 33 African immigrants who came ashore Thursday in southern Spain aboard an overcrowded boat, including several pregnant women and other travelers suffering from hypothermia, police said.
Spanish media showed dramatic photos of police struggling to carry women on the verge of fainting after they were found wandering through Tarifa, Spain's windswept southern tip, Civil Guard officials told Spanish news agencies.
Police also arrested two Moroccan men suspected of trafficking in human beings and navigating the Zodiac boat across from Africa, Efe said.
Twenty-six of the would-be immigrants were from sub-Saharan Africa, six of them women, and the other seven were males from North African countries, police said.
Red Cross officials administered first aid on the scene, and the detainees were taken to a processing center for the government to begin expulsion proceedings.
Tens of thousands of destitute Africans try to enter Spain illegally each year by crossing the perilous Strait of Gibraltar to reach the southern mainland or by sailing northwest to the Canary Islands out in the Atlantic.
They seek a better life doing menial jobs in Spain or hope to use the country as a stepping stone to other points in Europe.
Most are caught trying to sneak in and some die in the attempt.
North Korea's military may have fired a laser at a U.S. helicopter in March, a U.S. official said Tuesday, as the communist state ditched its last legal obligation to keep itself free of nuclear weapons.
The aircraft's censors detected the unknown type of laser while it was flying near the heavily fortified frontier that divides the two Koreas, the U.S. military official said on condition of anonymity.
No one was injured and no equipment was damaged in the incident.
North Korea said Tuesday that a 1992 agreement with South Korea not to deploy nuclear arms on the Korean Peninsula was nullified, accusing the United States of derailing the deal.
``The inter-Korean declaration on denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula was thus reduced to a dead document due to the U.S. vicious hostile policy to stifle the DPRK with nukes,'' said the North's official news agency, KCNA.
DPRK stands for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the North's official name.
The announcement came as U.S. President George W. Bush and South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun were about to meet Wednesday in Washington to discuss North Korea's nuclear programs.
The accord was the last remaining legal obligation under which North Korea was banned from developing atomic arms.
In January this year, North Korea withdrew from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a global accord to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
A U.S. military official in Seoul, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday North Korea is believed to have exported US$580 million worth of missiles to Iran, Pakistan, Libya, Syria, Egypt, Yemen and the United Arab Emirates in 2001.
In December, a shipment of North Korean missiles bound for Yemen was briefly stopped in the Arabian Sea.
North Korea accuses the United States of planning to attack the communist country, which Bush has branded part of an ``axis of evil'' along with Iran and Iraq.
It also revived its claim that the U.S. military keeps many nuclear weapons in South Korea, turning the country into ``the biggest nuclear advance base in the Far East.''
Washington says it wants to use dialogue to resolve the nuclear crisis, although U.S. officials have not ruled out a military option.
North Korea ``keenly felt that the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula would only remain as a daydream unless the U.S. drops its hostile policy toward the DPRK,'' KCNA said.
It said the U.S. invasion of Iraq taught it that ``a war can be averted and the sovereignty of the country and the security of the nation can be protected only when a country has ... a strong military deterrent force capable of decisively repelling any attack to be made by any types of sophisticated weapons.''
In New York, South Korean President Roh said he will never condone North Korea's nuclear development, but Seoul and Washington agree the nuclear standoff with the North must be solved peacefully ``by all means.''
``It is incumbent upon Pyongyang to give up its nuclear project and come forward as a responsible member of the international community,'' he said.
``When the North takes this route, the Republic of Korea and the international community will extend the necessary support and cooperation.''
Julianne Lee, a Roh spokeswoman, said the North Korean statement might be a negotiating ploy in the wake of talks last month with U.S. officials in Beijing.
During the talks in Beijing, U.S. officials said North Korea claimed it already possesses nuclear weapons, and that it had reprocessed 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods -- a move that could yield several atomic bombs within months.
North Korea offered to drop its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for security guarantees and economic aid, according to U.S. officials.
The nuclear crisis flared in October, when Washington said North Korea admitted having a secret nuclear program in violation of a 1994 treaty with Washington.
Australia will keep open its embassy in Saudi Arabia despite decisions by the United States, Britain and Germany to close their diplomatic outposts in the country amid growing terror fears.
On the eve of a visit to the Saudi capital, Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said security at the Australian embassy appeared to be sufficient.
``We have quite a substantial security presence at the Australian embassy in Riyadh and the ambassador thinks that that security presence is sufficient,'' Downer told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
Australia is one of Washington's staunchest allies.
Canberra sent troops to fight in the war on terror in Afghanistan and alongside U.S. and British forces in Iraq.
New Zealand also has no immediate plans to close its Saudi embassy.
On Tuesday, Saudi security officials said three suspected al-Qaida militants were arrested in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, in sweeps following the near-simultaneous suicide attacks on three residential compounds on the outskirts of Riyadh on May 12.
The bombings killed 34 people -- including nine attackers, eight Americans and two Britons -- and wounded nearly 200 others.
Earlier this week, Saudi and U.S. officials said they had new intelligence pointing to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida group possibly launching fresh attacks in the United States or against American interests overseas.
Israeli troops shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian boy and critically injured two children, ages 7 and 9, during conflicts in the West Bank that erupted Tuesday as Israeli and Palestinian leaders moved toward talks on a new Mideast peace plan.
The shootings -- which the Israeli army said came in response to attacks by Palestinians throwing stones and molotov cocktails -- came a day after Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared that Israel's occupation in the West Bank must end, stunning both dovish opponents and hardline allies.
Sharon's remarks and Israel's conditional acceptance Sunday of the so-called ``road map'' to peace were expected to jump-start stalled Mideast peace negotiations.
A summit between Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart, Mahmoud Abbas, had been planned for Wednesday but was postponed, according to Israeli and Palestinian officials, who blamed each other for the delay.
The officials said no new date had been set; Israel Radio said the meeting would take place Thursday.
A three-way summit with U.S. President George W. Bush could take place as early as next week, possibly in Jordan.
Israeli soldiers shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian boy and wounded a 7-year-old boy after opening fire at stone throwers in the Tulkarem refugee camp in the West Bank on Tuesday, Palestinian hospital officials said.
The army said troops fired, and hit a boy, after a Palestinian youth threw a molotov cocktail.
In a village near the West Bank city of Nablus on Tuesday, Israeli troops opened fire on youths throwing stones, hitting a 9-year-old Palestinian boy in the head and critically wounding him, and hitting two 12-year-old boys in the legs, lightly wounding them, Palestinian hospital officials said.
A 10-year-old boy was struck in the leg by a rubber bullet, but was not seriously hurt, the officials said.
Military sources said troops were trying to break up stone-throwing protests, but did not use live fire.
The army was not aware of any injuries.
Five Palestinian children, a Palestinian woman and a police officer, were injured Tuesday after accidentally detonating explosives in the West Bank city of Hebron, Palestinian security officials said.
The children found the explosives in two plastic bags under a tree and accidentally detonated the first bag.
After a police officer arrived, the second bag exploded, seriously injuring him, the officials said.
Israeli troops killed a Palestinian teenager Monday and another surrendered after infiltrating from Gaza, the military said.
They were unarmed and apparently looking for work.
In a village near the West Bank town of Qalqiliya, an 11-year-old Palestinian boy was killed during an exchange of gunfire.
Also Monday, Israeli soldiers fired on four diplomatic vehicles in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun, diplomats said.
There were no injuries from the incident.
Peter Lundberg, an official from the Swedish Consulate in Jerusalem, said that two bullets hit the windshield of the Swiss Consulate's armored car, and that small-arms fire also was directed at other cars from Sweden, Denmark and the European Union.
Military sources said the Israeli army had established roadblocks at the entrance to Beit Hanoun to prevent Palestinians militants from leaving the area.
The sources said shots had been fired in the air when vehicles tried to skirt the roadblocks.
The violence erupted after Sharon endured withering criticism Monday from members of his own Likud Party over his Cabinet's acceptance of the U.S.-backed ``road map'' peace plan.
Sharon indicated a 180-degree turnaround after decades of warning that an Israeli withdrawal from even small parts of the West Bank could endanger Israel's existence.
Skeptics, however, wondered whether Sharon's conversion was a shrewd effort to deflect U.S. pressure in the hopes the road map would fail before Israel had to make tough concessions.
``To keep 3.5 million people under occupation is bad for us and them,'' Sharon said in remarks broadcast on Israel Radio.
The term ``occupation'' is anathema to the Israeli right, which believes Israel has a legitimate claim to the West Bank and Gaza Strip for religious and security reasons.
Palestinians and their dovish Israeli allies routinely use the word ``occupation'' when demanding that Israel leave the West Bank and Gaza and dismantle Jewish settlements.
Palestinians claim all of the West Bank and Gaza for a state.
On Sunday, Sharon's Cabinet conditionally approved the ``road map,'' a three-phase plan that begins with a halt to violence and envisages a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 2005.
Sharon told party critics he was committed to finding a political solution to the conflict, including an Israeli withdrawal from West Bank population centers.
``This can't continue endlessly.
Do you want to remain forever in Ramallah, Jenin, Nablus?'' he asked.
Likud lawmakers charged that the road map was slanted in favor of the Palestinians and endangers Israel.
In his remarks Monday, Sharon left himself an out.
``What will happen if Palestinian terror continues?
Nothing.
Nothing will happen.
The Palestinians will get nothing,'' he said.
Critics have said Sharon's long-held condition that all violence must stop before peace moves is unrealistic and guarantees failure of any peace initiative, including the road map, thus releasing him from the necessity of following through on his remarks.
Liberal lawmaker Yossi Sarid argued Sharon was trying to keep his intentions murky to persuade the U.S. government that he was committed to the plan, while his hawkish allies could assume he was just making a tactical move to end U.S. pressure.
``Ariel Sharon likes to walk in the fog, because then no one knows where he is headed,'' Sarid wrote in the Yediot Ahronot daily.
A retired navy officer facing life in prison over a failed effort to protect Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, told a court Thursday he felt remorse for his part in the 1999 plot.
``I have a guilty conscience,'' Andonis Naxakis said during his two-hour testimony.
Naxakis is one of 13 people on trial for bringing the fugitive guerrilla leader to Greece.
Ocalan was moved by the government to its embassy compound in Kenya, where he was captured by Turkish commandos.
The retired Greek officer said he had been trying to get Ocalan to The Netherlands, home to a large Kurdish community.
He claimed he had been manipulated by the government.
``I believe I was unwittingly used as bait for its disgraceful plan ... an organized move by the government to hand Ocalan over to Turkey,'' he said.
Naxakis and two of Ocalan's Kurdish associates are being tried on criminal charges of endangering national security.
Ocalan, being tried in absentia, was indicted for entering the country illegally, a misdemeanor.
Ocalan, leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, is serving a life sentence in Turkey for leading a 15-year insurgency against the country that left 37,000 people dead.
He is being tried in Greece in absentia.
Five of the U.S. sailors killed in the attack on the destroyer "USS Cole" are now home.
A military transport plane brought the flag-draped caskets from Germany where they were taken yesterday.
An honor guard removed them to a hangar at Dover Air Force base for a short memorial service for close family members.
They requested privacy for today's proceedings.
The bodies of two other sailors recovered from the ship are in Bahrain and will be returned later.
More than 100 FBI agents and explosives experts are expected in Yemen by the end of the weekend to investigate the suspected terrorist attack.
A team of special Naval engineers will work on recovering the bodies of ten sailors listed as missing and presumed dead.
Officials suspect a suicide bombing caused the blast, which tore a 40 foot hole in the hull of the destroyer.
Pentagon sources say an early examination finds 400 to 500 pounds of explosives may have been used.
There are no confirmed suspects yet, but officials say several Middle East groups are expected to be investigated.
The summit is coinciding with more unrest in several areas of the West Bank and Gaza strip.
Hundreds of stone-throwing Palestinians stormed the Israeli-controlled section of Hebron, breaking a curfew imposed since the outbreak of the unrest last month.
Witnesses said Israeli soldiers fired live ammunition and rubber-coated metal bullets, wounding at least seven people.
Thousands of Palestinian demonstrators marched in the area to protest against a renewal of contacts with Israel.
The nuclear submarine "Kursk" could become a permanent underwater grave for 118 Russian sailors.
Russia's top admiral says he may scrap efforts to recover the bodies if experts decide the mission would endanger deep sea divers.
All those aboard the "Kursk" were killed in August when the sub sank after being damaged by an explosion in the Barents Sea.
The cause of the disaster has not been determined.
An international salvage team is due to arrive at the scene of the accident tomorrow.
A U.S. businessman accused of spying says he has no chance of getting a fair trial in Russia.
Edmond Pope appeared in a Moscow courtroom today and read from a 40-page statement, denying charges of espionage, and protesting his treatment by the court.
Russian prosecutors say Pope tried to buy secret blueprints for a high-speed torpedo used by the Russian military.
Pope's supporters say he was seeking information on an old Russian underwater propulsion system.
President Clinton says he's willing to meet separately with Israeli and Palestinian leaders if both sides work to end the Mideast violence.
The president proposed the talks in a call to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.
Mr. Clinton says he wants to see Arafat and Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak abide by promises to end the bloodshed made at last week's emergency summit in Egypt.
A White House spokesman says Arafat is reviewing the offer.
Meanwhile, some 30,000 anti-Israeli protesters clashed with police in Jordan.
Demonstrators from across the country traveled to a west bank border town to call for the return of Palestinian refugees.
The number of police and protesters who were injured is still not known.
A note from a doomed sailor raises new questions about Russian efforts to save the crew of the submarine "Kursk."
The note was found in the pocket of a sailor whose body was recovered yesterday.
It was written after explosions sent the "Kursk" to the bottom of the sea.
It confirms 23 sailors survived.
For days, teams tried without success to open the escape hatch.
It was pried open by divers from Norway who found no one left alive.
Relatives have complained some sailors might have been rescued had Russia sought help immediately.
The widow of the sailor who wrote the note wept today as she was interviewed on Russian television.
I came here after I heard the official announcement on TV.
I love him very much.
I want to see him and I want to read his letter.
While the cause of the "Kursk" disaster remains unknown, Russian officials say the sub may have collided with a World War II mine or there may have been an internal malfunction.
Former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres is expected to meet soon with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in an attempt to quell Mideast violence.
The meeting comes amid fresh clashes between the two sides.
Fighting broke out in Ramallah, Hebron and at the border crossings between Israel and Gaza today.
Three Palestinians were killed, at least 49 people wounded.
Overnight, Israeli gunships attacked three headquarters of Fatah, the political party allied with Arafat.
Israel calls it a response to Palestinian guerrilla warfare.
Arafat is condemning the attacks.
A verdict handed down three years ago today brought debate from both sides of the Atlantic.
In this edition of "Headliners," Bob Glascoff has the story of British au pair Louise Woodward and finds out what she's doing now.
October 1997.
Louise Woodward is sentenced to life in prison on charges she murdered an infant boy.
Woodward, then a 19-year-old au pair from Britain, was accused of killing 8-month-old Matthew Eappen by shaking him and slamming his head.
The case attracted widespread attention in England, where many thought she was innocent.
Woodward had been living with the Eappen family taking care of their two young sons.
Despite receiving a life sentence, her charges were reduced two weeks later from second-degree murder to manslaughter.
She was sentenced to time served and released.
Woodward returned to Britain in 1998 to another controversy.
Her parents were accused of defrauding her defense fund.
They went on trial this year and were acquitted.
Today, Woodward is studying to be a lawyer.
With "Headliners," I'm Bob Glascoff.
An Oregon girl missing for 15 years has been reunited with her family.
The mother says her daughter was taken by her baby-sitter when she was just 3 years old.
The alleged abduction of Fallon Marie Hodges was never reported to police.
Authorities say the girl contacted law enforcement in Nevada last Friday saying she needed help in finding her identity.
She says she was abandoned by her surrogate parents, one of whom was her alleged kidnapper.
The name Father Frost may not be familiar to you, but to Russian children, Christmas wouldn't be the same without him.
Denise Dillon reports.
Santa Claus visited the northern Russian city of Veliki Ustyug to meet with his Russian counterpart, Father Frost.
It's believed Veliki Ustyug, which is about 600 miles north of Moscow, is the hometown of Father Frost, one of the main characters of Russian Christmas stories.
The 50,000 residents here have a deep respect for the history of their town, and it seemed as though all of them bundled up against the cold and came out to welcome Santa and Father Frost as they rode into the town's central square on a horse-drawn carriage.
People who live here hope this is the beginning of a long tradition that others around the world will celebrate with them.
A new great holiday came to our town.
This is how new traditions are generated.
And I hope this holiday will become nationwide soon.
As for us, we are always happy to see guests in our town.
When Santa arrived, the temperature was 16 degrees below 0, but that did not stop the Russian folk singers and dancers from performing traditional dances.
Later, Santa visited Father Frost's home, where they met with all the good little boys and girls.
When you believe in Santa Claus, then you are good people and good children.
Then your dreams can come true.
Children around the world believe that Santa Claus or Father Frost will bring them good luck, and presents, for the holidays.
Denise Dillon, "Headline News."
A woman whose husband was killed in last month's crash of a Singapore Airlines plane has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the carrier.
Investigators say the Boeing 747 hit a barrier and a crane on the runway and exploded during takeoff.
82 people were killed.
The lawsuit filed in Federal court says negligence and reckless misconduct contributed to the crash.
A spokesman for Singapore Airlines declined to comment.
The Navy now says it will cost about $240 million to get the "USS Cole" up and running again.
Officials originally estimated it would cost $150 million to repair the gaping hole in the ship's midsection.
But a Naval official says that does not include the cost of replacing equipment and weapons damaged in the attack carried out by suicide bombers in Yemen.
The ship is scheduled to arrive in Mississippi in about ten days.
Russia's Presidential Clemency Commission is advising president Vladimir Putin to release convicted American spy Edmund Pope on humanitarian grounds.
A top Putin aide says Pope could be home by Christmas.
However, according to Russian law, Putin cannot issue a pardon any earlier than December.
Pope was convicted of espionage Wednesday in Moscow and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
He suffers from a rare form of bone cancer and has asked Putin to let him return to the U.S. to receive medical care.
Ousted Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is heading to exile in Saudi Arabia.
He left Pakistan yesterday, after being pardoned by the president.
Sharif had been in jail since his ouster in a military coup last year.
He was convicted of kidnapping and corruption.
Saudi Arabia offered to accept Sharif and more than a dozen members of his family on humanitarian grounds.
Will winter storms affect the weather where you are?
Let's check the "Headline News" extended forecast.
Another round of winter weather is expected today as another major winter storm will be spreading from the southern plains through the Ohio River valley and eventually into the Northeast.
Cities like Springfield, Missouri, back towards St. Louis and Indianapolis and Columbus will pick up the heaviest snowfall.
Over six inches is expected by tomorrow morning, and then moving in towards the northeast, where we expect even some ice in some of the suburbs to the northwestern areas of New York City.
Here's a look at the forecast weather map -- slow pressure is moving in towards the Ohio River valley and eventually into the northeast by late tomorrow.
It's moving rather quickly, too, so the precipitation will be ending through the Midwest as high pressure builds in tomorrow.
Look for the snow to continue into New England tomorrow.
Friday, rain into the southeast.
There will be some showers in the Northwest.
Temperature-wise, it remains cold over the northern tier.
It begins to warm up over parts of the south.
A wet day on Saturday over much of the East and Southeast.
There'll be some snows, though, back into the Midwest.
Forecast highs are still on the cold side.
And as we check out Sunday's weather, snow through the great lakes and rain into the Northeast with forecast highs mainly in the over the northeastern U.S.
I'm meteorologist Dave Hennen.
For more weather information, login to cnn.com.
The damaged "USS Cole" comes home today.
It's due to arrive in Pascagoula, Mississippi, this morning.
The destroyer was christened there five years ago.
Repairs are expected to cost about $240 million.
Yemeni and U.S. authorities are still investigating the October bombing.
17 sailors were killed.
Yemen's Prime Minister says at least three Yemenis will go on trial next month in connection with the attack.
They're suspected of belonging to an international terrorist network.
Edmund Pope, the U.S. businessman convicted of espionage in Russia, is offering the first details of his eight-month stay in a Moscow prison.
Speaking from a U.S. military hospital in Germany, Pope says he was treated well by prison guards, but suffered from mental anguish and depression.
Today, Pope is undergoing an extensive medical checkup, to see if there is any recurrence of bone cancer.
He's undergoing tests for skin cancer as well.
He will wait for the results before returning home to the U.S.
Pope was pardoned yesterday by Russian president Vladimir Putin.
U.S. and Yemeni officials have released a photo of one of the suicide bombers killed in the attack on the "USS Cole" in the port of Aden October.
17 U.S. sailors were killed and 39 others hurt.
The officials say Yemeni national Hussan Saeed Awad Al-Khamri was described by a boy as having launched the boat used in the attack.
Six possible suspects are still being held in Yemen pending a trial that could start as early as next month.
Investigators say they're still looking for other key suspects.
Many people in North America will be able to experience a partial solar eclipse tomorrow.
But scientists say it won't block much Christmas sunlight in most places.
As always, eclipse fans are being warned not to look directly at the Sun because that can cause permanent eye damage.
The eclipse will occur at around 12 P.M. Eastern Time.
The best view will be in the Northeast.
Welcome all to my new site.
I've decided to incorporate my old work blog into a general blog, the work diary is up on the right titled "my work diary".
EFF YEAH!
BUSH WON!
OK then.
My next thought.
The world is a much better place now that the terrorist Yassar Arafat is dead.
Here is a good one minute video on his great legacy Here.
This guy was one of the early innovators of terrorism in this century and he is protrayed by the Main Stream Media (MSM for short) as a "freedom fighter".
Because of him millions of palestinians chose "jihad" over peace with Isreal.
He innovated suicide bombers and plane hijacking plus he embezzelled hundreds of millions of dollars from aid funds.
...and this guy got a nobel peace prize, what a disgrace.
UPDATE 1 - Drudge is reporting that Arafat has been skimming 2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territories.
MAG: Arafat Skimmed $2 Million a Month From the Gas Trade Sun Nov 14 2004 09:53:40 ETNew York.
-- Last year auditors discovered Arafat was guilty of skimming $2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territories, TIME reports.
In August 2002 international donors forced Arafat to sign over his investments to the Palestine Investment Fund, which was audited by U.S. accountants and managed by Palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayyad, a former International Monetary Fund official.
After scouring corporations throughout the Arab world and bank accounts in the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg, the auditors identified $800 million, which has been made a part of the Palestinian Authority's official budget.
It's the most successful financial reform in the Arab world, -- Jim Prince, president of the Los Angeles-based Democracy Council and head of the audit team, tells TIME.
People close to Fayyad's investigation told TIME of Arafat's skimming from the gas trade.
Breaking the gasoline smuggling and corruption boosted the Palestinian Authority's official treasury by $10 million a month and cut gas prices for ordinary Palestinians.
"Arafat's death means his followers may never know just how much more they may be owed, "writes TIME's Matt Rees in "Where's Arafat's Money?"
In the mid-1990s, Arafat controlled a financial empire worth at least $3 billion.
By the time of his death, he was down to his last $1 billion, according to Israeli-intelligence estimates.
Arafat wife Suha's outburst that his successors were "trying to bury [him] alive" came after she learned that Arafat had signed over at least $800 million to the government of the Palestinian Authority two years ago, TIME reports.
Top Palestinian officials say Suha wants the new chief of the P.L.O., Mahmoud Abbas, and Palestinian prime minister Ahmed Qurei to give her money out of the P.L.O.'s party coffers.
But a senior P.L.O. official tells TIME, "they'll pay her a pension, and that's it."
People familiar with Arafat's finances say the Palestinian leader sent Suha $200,000 a month out of the Palestinian Authority's budget for the Office of the President.
French authorities are investigating transfers of $15 million from Swiss banks to Paris accounts in Suha's name at the Arab Bank and at BNP Paribas Bank, a French bank, TIME reports.
Senior Palestinian security officials tell TIME that Arafat also shipped money to the gunmen of the Aqsa Martyrs Brigades.
Developing.
.. Sure sounds like a Nobel Prize winner to me.
Time is reporting today that a al-Qaeda operative was captured and is spitting out that they have plans in the work to smuggle nukes into the US from Mexico, see the article here.
Thank god Bush is still our president, although I strongly disagree with him on his new immigration policy.
This policy would just make it easier for the enemy to get within our borders.
Just reported from AP that Condi Rice has been chosen by President Bush to become the new Secretary of State for his second term.
I agree with his choice and think she will make a much better Secretary then Powell did.
Her views are much more in step with the President then Powell, although he was a true soldier and carried the message.
Plus, any lady who works out to Led Zeppelin and is a Football nut is alright in my book.
Thanks to Captain Ed for bringing this up.
Apparently James Baker, former Secretary of State and current envoy for the Bush Administration, has asked the Isreali government to release a scumbag terrorist to promote "peace".
There is now ... in an Israeli prison a man named Marwan Barghouti, who is one of the young guard of Palestinians, and if the Palestinians are going to make this work against the really hard-line elements, the Islamists and some of the people of Hamas, they're going to have to have a coalition of the young guard and the old guard.
Gotta say that this shocked me, I've always thought Mr. Baker was a upstanding guy but this is just plain good old fashioned bullcrap.
Here are some of the fine achievements of the terrorist Marwan Barghouti Marwan Barghouti (born June 6, 1958) is a Palestinian leader from the West Bank and a leader of the Fatah movement that forms the backbone of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO).
On June 6, 2004, he was sentenced to five life sentences for five murders of Israeli civilians and 40 years imprisonment for attempted murders in terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians.
Barghouti was one of the major leaders of the First Intifada in 1987, leading Palestinians in a mass uprising against Israeli occupation of the West Bank.
During the uprising, he was arrested by Israel and deported to Jordan, where he stayed for seven years until he was permitted to return under the terms of the Oslo Accords in 1994.
In 1996, he was elected to the Palestinian Legislative Council, in which he advocated peace with Israel, sometimes coming in conflict with Yasser Arafat.
The formal position occupied by Barghouti was the General Secretary of Fatah in the West Bank.
By the summer of 2000, Barghouti and Arafat had grown increasingly at odds with each other, with Barghouti accusing Arafat's administration of corruption and his security services of human rights violations, and Arafat was planning to fire him shortly.
However, as the Second Intifada began, Barghouti became increasingly popular as a leader of the Fatah Tanzim militia.
This was perhaps due to the transformation of Tanzim into an organization more resembling militant groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, responsible for dozens of civilian deaths in drive-by shootings.
Under Barghouti, the Tanzim has also carried out suicide bombings in Israel under the name al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades.
What is he thinking?
Release a known terrorist to run the PLO and that will bring about peace, give me a effin break.
Chris Matthews, that idiot talking head over at MSNBC, said yesterday about the terrorists we fought in Fallujah "a rival, I mean they're not bad guys especially, just people who just disagree with us".
...this just amazes me, the complete idiocy of this waste of human sperm.
These are the same terrorists blowing up families, chopping off heads of civilians, and the complete disregard for any human life and they just disagree with us?
Tell that to the family of Margaret Hassan, the school teacher who was brutally tortured and then slaughtered by these same guys, they ain't so bad are they Chris Matthews?
This women who was known for her 30 years of work in Iraq, distributing medicine, food and supplies to Iraqis suffering under the sanctions of the 1990s.
British officials say they believe Hassan was a blindfolded woman seen being shot in the head by a hooded militant on a video obtained but not aired by the Arab television station Al-Jazeera.
She would be the first foreign woman to die in the wave of kidnappings in Iraq.
No group has claimed responsibility.
On Sunday, Marines found the mutilated body of what they believe was a Western woman on a street in Fallujah during the U.S. assault on the insurgent stronghold.
The body, clothed in what appeared to be a purple, velour dress, was wrapped in a blanket, with a blood-soaked black cloth nearby.
As of Tuesday night, the U.S. command said the body had not been identified.
These are the reasons that none of these mothereffers should ever see the light of day.
..they need to be all lined up and shot.
Torturing this poor women for what?
WHAT?
And we should treat them as enemy soldiers under the Geneva Convention.
Last I remember the convention applies to countries that signed the document and the two countries must have standing armies with uniforms.
...the Iraqi military is at our side, the terrorists are not.
Since when are terrorists soldiers?
They are lower then dogs.
Finally there is this written by a student of Mrs. Hassan She was my English teacher.
In the memory of my teacher and a fellow aid worker colleague Mrs. M. Hassan.
Mrs. Hassan was my English teacher in The British Council in Baghdad in Al-Wazirya district, I remember her years ago with her Irish accent telling me it's not Important how many words I must learn but the pronunciation of the words I already knew must be perfected.
Mrs. Hassan speak s perfect Arabic and she has a heart of gold, she's been killed by (men in pajamas), turn Iraq upside down and find them.
The Marines will find them, and when they do they shall die.
2Slick pointed me to a article at In Iraq For 365.
This is a great blog and I encourage you all to read it regularly.
On Sunday he wrote of two Iraqi soldiers who didn't see us as conquerors but as allies when the Mosul bombing occurred.
The suicide bomb sprayed bb-like fragments throughout the Marez dining facility.
One piece of shrapnel sliced through the femoral artery of a U.S. soldier and his only chance for survival was in the hands of these two Iraqis.
Recalling the medical classes they'd received from the special forces, the Iraqis reacted calmly, fastening a belt above the wound, creating a tourniquet, which stopped the gushing stream of red.
They moved the soldier to a MEDVAC vehicle via two-man litter carry.
After they hoisted the soldier in the truck, the two Iraqis -- one an officer, the other an NCO -- ran back to the facility and began treating the other wounded without regard for their safety.
When the dust settled and the mess tent had been evacuated, everybody who could talk was questioned about their health.
When the medics came to the two Iraqis, the ING soldiers only wanted to know how everybody else was.
When asked why did they do it, they simply stated, "this was our duty; we are a team, and we take care of each other."
Even the Americans.
No matter what the MSM tries to tell you, there are Iraqi's who will help the allies, who will fight alongside them and put their lives at risk to make sure Democracy succeeds in their country.
This brings to mind a speech Prime Minister Tony Blair gave recently while visiting Iraq.
When I meet the people working alongside the United Nations--Iraqis in fear of their life every day, because they are trying to bring freedom and democracy to their people--when I see their courage and their determination and know that they speak for the vast majority of people in Iraq who want that democracy and freedom, then I know that we are doing the right thing.
And I will also say this to you: There are people dying in Iraq, but the reason people are dying is because of the terrorism and the intimidation and the people who are deliberately killing anyone trying to make this country better.
Now what should our response be as an international community?
Our response should be to stand alongside the democrats--the people who've got the courage to see this thing through--and help them see it through.
I've got no doubt at all that that is the right thing for us to do.
Sometimes when I see some of the reporting of what's happening in Iraq in the rest of the world, I just feel that people should understand how precious what has been created here is.
And those people from that electoral commission that I described as the heroes of the new Iraq--every day ... a lot of them aren't living in the Green Zone, they've got to travel in from outside.
They do not know at any point in time whether they're going to be subject to brutality or intimidation, even death, and yet they carry on doing it.
Now what a magnificent example of the human spirit--that's the side we should be on.
This recent news story is troubling in many different ways.
When I first heard of the story I figured it was some wackjob playing with a new toy but now we find out there have been 7 incidents since Christmas from the West to East coast.
The FBI, concerned that terrorists could use lasers as weapons, is investigating why laser beams were directed into the cockpits of seven airplanes in flight since Christmas.
Laser beams can temporarily blind or disorient pilots and possibly cause a plane to crash.
The FBI is looking into two incidents in Colorado Springs, Colo., and one each in Cleveland, Washington, Houston, Teterboro, N.J., and Medford, Ore., according to federal and local law enforcement and transportation officials, some of whom spoke only on condition of anonymity.
A federal law enforcement official, who declined to be identified by name, said Thursday there is no evidence of a plot or terrorist activity.
But pilots are troubled by the incidents, and the FBI earlier this month warned of the possibility that terrorists might use the devices as weapons.
"It's not some kid," said Paul Rancatore, a pilot who serves as deputy chairman of the security committee for the Allied Pilots Association.
"It's too organized."
Loren Thompson, who teaches military technology at Georgetown University, called it a "rather worrisome development," though he said experts would be more puzzled than alarmed.
"What we're talking about is a fairly powerful visible light laser that has the ability to lock onto a fast-moving aircraft," Thompson said.
"That's not the sort of thing you pick up at a military surplus store."
Thompson said a piece of equipment that could do the things the FBI suspects would be "fairly expensive and fairly sophisticated."
"It sounds like an organized effort to cause airline accidents," Thompson said.
Michelle Malkin has a post about this today where some outlets have stopped selling lasers.
Lots of people think that these indeed might be loonies playing with new Christmas toys but I disagree.
These are incidents where the Airplanes were tracked , some as high as 8500 feet.
To track a fast moving plane at that altitude would not be some toy you can get from the local wal-mart.
In my opinion this is quite alarming.
This Isn't Writing, It's Typing has a great post out with a ton of info, some of it quite scary A more frightening scenario is that terrorists may have obtained a Chinese-produced ZM-87 laser blinder which is specifically designed to blind eyesight.
The Japanese terrorist cult Aum Shinrikyo--which launched the infamous Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway system in 1995--was discovered to have experimented with the use of lasers as weapons.
According to The Asian Pacific Post, "Cult members apparently obtained laser design information from Russian institutes they visited and built a laser weapon mounted on a truck.
They had planned to use the laser against Tokyo policemen, but the plan failed when the laser malfunctioned during the testing stage."
PoliticAlex also has some info on this story also.
I found the following report that was presented to Congress recently about the shoulder launched missle threat to airliners, which this might very well be a precursor to: Recent events have focused attention on the threat that terrorists with shoulder fired surface-to-air missiles (SAMs), referred to as Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), pose to commercial airliners.
Most believe that no single solution exists to effectively mitigate this threat.
Instead, a menu of options may be considered, including installing infrared (IR) countermeasures on aircraft; modifying flight operations and air traffic control procedures; improving airport and regional security; and strengthening missile non-proliferation efforts.
Equipping aircraft with missile countermeasure systems can protect the aircraft even when operating in areas where ground-based security measures are unavailable or infeasible to implement.
However, this option has a relatively high cost, between $1 million and $3 million per aircraft, and the time needed for implementation does not allow for immediate response to the existing terrorist threat.
Procedural improvements such as specific flight crew training, altering air traffic procedures to minimize exposure to the threat, and improved security near airports may be less costly than countermeasures and could more immediately help deter domestic terrorist attacks.
However, these techniques by themselves cannot completely mitigate the risk of domestic attacks and would not protect U.S. airliners flying to and from foreign airports.
Legislation introduced in the 108th Congress (H.R. 580, S. 311) calls for the installation of missile defense systems in all turbojet aircraft used in scheduled air carrier service.
While this legislation is still under consideration, Homeland Security appropriations designated $60 million in FY2004 and $61 million in FY2005 to fund a program to develop and test prototype missile countermeasure systems for commercial aircraft based on existing military technology.
It is anticipated that at the conclusion of this program, in January 2006, the Department of Homeland Security will be able to provide a detailed analysis of the suitability of such systems for use to protect commercial passenger aircraft.
American Future has a link up to a article written in yesterdays Houston Chronicle.
It describes how the European Governments look to be changing their tune in regards to President Bush.
Why you ask?
But there is arguably more to this sea change than just a grumpy acceptance of the status quo.
From a European perspective, three things are making it easier to warm to the Bush White House.
One is the death of Yasser Arafat.
No issue divides Europe and the United States more keenly than the Israeli-Palestinian dispute.
For the last few years, Europeans have criticized Bush for failing to put enough pressure on Israel to get out of the occupied territories and for refusing to deal with Arafat.
That another reason why I respect Bush so much, his refusal to acknowledge that windbag terrorist Arafat.
May he rot in hell.
But since Arafat's death, Europeans and Americans have been able to find common ground: supporting Ariel Sharon's withdrawal from Gaza, putting pressure on Israel to let the Palestinians hold elections and, covertly, backing Mahmoud Abbas to become the next Palestinian leader.
A second reason is Europe's growing worries about Islamic terrorism.
The murder in November of Theo van Gogh, a provocative Dutch filmmaker, at the hands of an Islamic militant has been called Europe's 9/11.
Though the two events are obviously not fully comparable, it is certainly true that American conservatives, such as Francis Fukuyama and Bernard Lewis, have found a wider audience recently for the idea that radical Islam is inimical to European traditions of tolerance.
You mean those radical muslims can be kinda nasty sometimes?
Get outta here.
...Keep doing business like the cowards in Spain and they will more then likely have their very own 9/11 to cry about.
The third force is the reappearance, albeit in a milder form, of the threat that kept the trans-Atlantic alliance together for half a century.
The Russian bear is growling again.
The Ukrainian election --- complete with its KGB-style poisoning of the opposition leader and heavy-handed electoral fraud -- has reminded European diplomats of Vladimir V. Putin's determination to control his "near abroad."
They should be very worried about this item, I believe Putin is slowly sliding Russia back to what it once was.
Hopefully our Government isn't asleep at the wheel with this situation either.
There is a personal edge to all this.
Just as the snooty continentals eventually came to admire the gormless Hollywood actor, there is a grudging willingness to rethink some prejudices about the inarticulate Texan.
Many European leaders once swallowed the Michael Moore version of history: that Bush was an ignorant interloper who stole the White House.
His thumping re-election, however, shows that he represents a large body of conservative American opinion.
In short, Europeans are getting used to the idea that it is not Bush who is the exception, but the U.S. itself that is exceptional --- and that if they want to deal with this exceptional superpower they need to humor it rather than rile it.
Strangely enough, this has been Tony Blair's strategy all along; it is rapidly becoming the Continent's strategy, too.
Couldn't of ended that article any better myself.
Get used to it France, we ain't going nowhere.
Nicolae Mischie, authoritarian leader of a district organization of the main opposition party, has been jailed.
Romania voted in the last December, ousting the so-called socialist party PSD (Social-Democratic Party).
PSD managed to keep a stronghold in poor rural areas, with the help of people like Mischie.
They combined blackmail, using their right of decision regarding the public funds for local leaders opposing PSD, and strong seduction of the uneducated masses, in a marvelous way.
E.g., Mischie, who talks like an idiot, got a PhD in history.
His paper was on a political personality of the 19th century and Mischie bought the house where his paper's subject lived.
Maybe he tried to invest in his paper, maybe he believed sincerely in his admiration for the poor innocent dead guy and his ability of earning PhDs, but using a big car and living in a big house are signs for the masses that the man is an invaluable and irreplaceable leader.
Another misleading sign was his position as a University professor - he was teaching mostly at private universities, which are still ways to buy diplomas here in Romania.
Local leaders did their jobs, but national leaders, pressuring TV stations to lie, associating with old communist ex-president Ion Iliescu, failed to win in big cities.
PSD is building a strategy for the 4 years to come and they are going to elect a leader.
It is known that communist leaders die in office (as judges of the U.S. Supreme Court) and Ion Iliescu won't be different.
All the leaders that expressed different points of view will be excluded from the party, that's the untold truth that Romanian media seem to hide or not conceive yet.
Mischie was right to criticize the national leaders, because PSD got a good share in the elections in his area.
But Mischie was wrong, because he did that while in vacation in Switzerland, where you can't go if you earn 20K $ a year.
The new power had nothing to do, but let the policemen do what they should be doing years ago.
Iliescu and Nastase, ex-president and ex-prime minister, are now left only with the leadership of the party and holding this illusory authority.
If Mischie wouldn't take his chance on them, he would still be free, with the help of the weak and weakening strings Iliescu might still pull.
The interim government declared a state of emergency in Iraq excluding the Kurdish region for 60 days, according to the National Security Law introduced last August which states that emergency laws can be declared in the country for a period no more than 60 days provided a serious threat against Iraqi national security is recognised by the interim government.
Obviously, this is a necessary step that should have been taken at least two months ago.
Suicide bombings and guerrilla attacks carried out by insurgents and foreign terrorists based around Baghdad have escalated to alarming levels particularly during Ramadan.
Deputy governor of Diyala along with several council members from Ba'quba were ambushed and killed in Latifiya south of Baghdad, an area which has supposedly been 'cleared' from insurgents a couple of weeks ago.
Four suicide attacks in Samarra, also a recently 'liberated' area, against National Guard units and the governorate building.
Zarqawi's group claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Three police stations in Haditha, a small town west of Ramadi, were assaulted by groups of insurgents.
Some 30 policemen were captured, tied up and executed in cold blood against the walls following a confrontation which lasted two hours.
Zarqawi's group, again, claiming responsibility.
A full-scale military operation against Fallujah, which is apparently underway already, seems to be the government's 'final solution'.
I'm not optimistic to the outcome, especially when significant civilian casualties are unavoidable.
Note, that I'm not suggesting a peaceful or political solution would work either in these areas.
Insurgents west of Baghdad have quite obstinately made it clear that nothing but full control of the country, or at least the Anbar governorate, will satisfy them.
They have refused to participate in the political process, they have repeatedly announced their intentions to boycott the elections and to disrupt them in other areas, and they do not recognise the government or any other authority in the country beside themselves.
The demands of the Fallujah negotiants from the government weeks ago were obscene and they clearly reflect the overt sectarianism and regionalism of the armed groups in the area.
The demands were not released to the Iraqi public at the time for unkown reasons but they have leaked out days ago.
Here are just a few of them:
-A clear timetable for the withdrawal of foreign occupation forces.
(fair enough).
-Immediate withdrawal of US and Iraqi security forces from the Anbar governorate and the handover of security responsibilities to former army officers from Anbar.
-The appointment of ministers from the Anbar governorate to the ministries of Interior, Defense, Oil and Finance.
-The removal of certain officials (most of them from Shi'ite Islamic parties such as Ibrahim Al-Ja'fari) from governmental positions.
-The complete return of Ba'athists, army officers, Republican Guards, Mukhabarat, intelligence and security personnel to their former positions.
-The removal of Shi'ite Edhan (call for prayers) from official television and radio programs.
-Incomes of Shi'ite sacred shrines should be returned under the control of the Ministry of Endowments and Religious Affairs.
These last two demands have been allegedly added by Sheikh Harith Al-Dhari (head of the Association of Muslim Scholars) and are said to have been a major reason behind the failure of negotiations with the government.
Iraqis here in the south were shocked to hear of these demands and sectarian tensions are on the rise.
It scares me to see the reaction of people around me whenever Fallujah is mentioned.
The director of a primary health care clinic was remarking the other day that "Fallujah should be burnt upon its residents and then razed to the ground.
They are the sons of Mu'awiya, may Allah curse them all."
Sidenote: Mu'awiya bin Abi Sufyan was the governor of Syria during the 7th century and he fought Imam Ali bin Abi Talib (Muhammed's son-in-law) over the Caliphate after the assassination of Caliph Othman.
He became the first Ummayid Caliph and two decades later, under the Caliphate of his son Yazid, Imam Hussein bin Ali (grandson of Muhammed) was killed by his armies at present day Karbala.
Someone hushed the director and pointed out to him that I'm Sunni.
He was a bit embarrassed and tried to explain that he was referring to Wahhabis and foreign fighters.
It was a bit uncomfortable and I could feel that people were giving me furtive glances.
Refugees have been pouring out of Fallujah over the last few days into Baghdad and the surrounding areas.
The military operation will undoubtly aggravate the humanitarian situation inside the city since there are definitely thousands of families with no place to go.
Refugees in Baghdad have confirmed the rumours that the 'Mujahideen' are forcing men from 15-50 years old to stay and that they were threatened with execution if they refuse to carry arms in defense of the town.
Majlis Shura Al-Mujahideen (The Mujahideen Advisory Council) are in control of Fallujah and they have distributed a statement inviting Arab and foreign (including American) media reporters to enter the town and cover the battles.
The statement carried the insignia of Zarqawi's group Qa'idat Al-Jihad.
Everyone is closely watching what the next few days will bring, hoping the violence doesn't spread to the streets of Baghdad or other areas.
I'm still holed up in Basrah but I'll try to be on the road as soon as possible.
Gazprom, the main Russian gas company, has been denied a $10 billion credit line due to the political situation in Russia.
The company intended to use the cash to pay an artificially low price for Yukos assets (hence that firm's bankruptcy filing a few days ago -- you know it's bad when you have to use US courts to protect your own assets from appropriation by your home country).
It's starting to look like Putin's goal is a sort of judicial nationalization -- taking control of key assets through court, rather than executive, fiat.
But the markets have caught on, and Russia may be deprived of the capital it needs to grow.
Don't expect any of the Russian leadership to reverse course; given the current trends there, they'll just Blame the West when their screwy plan screws them over.
One of the rules of thumb that has guided my (limited) business career from the beginning is that China is never as lucrative as it looks.
This assumption is based on about 150 years of economic history, including several booms in interest and investment in China.
Their biggest problem: There's usually a 200-to-1 ratio of Nearly Starving Peasant Laborers to Absurdly Well-Off Government Employees.
And now it's an iffier 100-to-1, since there are also rich private sector employees and the labor force isn't quite so expendable.
What they've been missing for years was the real driver behind any consumer economy: Consumers.
Specifically, they didn't have a real middle class.
That's changed in the last twenty years, as increasing social mobility and a burst in foreign demand has finally made China a genuine, rather than theoretical, contender.
And they've even supplied proof of their economic viability, announcing that they've beaten Japan for exports to the US.
If only I'd figured this out in early 2002, when their stock market was by some stretch of the imagination cheap.
I dunno if you want anything to do with their stock market.
For one, its perforance last year was pretty dismal.
More importantly, its a structural nuthouse.
Unfortunately, minority shareholder rights are virtually non-existent, and excluding the dodgy financial statements listed on the exchange, lots of times companies are more interested in generating cash from an IPO then actually bothering with shareholder value.
This Economist article (not sure if registration is required, sorry):
http://www.economist.com/displaystory.cfm?story_id=1447832
http://www.economist.com/displaystory.cfm?story_id=1447832
Finally, the Shanghai Composite on July, 1997 was trading at 1189.76.
As of January 27, 2005 it's sitting at 1225.89.
That's an annualized return of roughly 0.4%.
The 5 year return is even worse (http://finance.yahoo.com/q/bc?s=^SSEC&amp;t=5y).
You haven't missed much :).
Apparently Yuganskneftegaz, which was sold to an independent buyer who turned out to be an apparatus of the state (yes, the same state that 1) forced Yukos to do the auction, and 2) ran the auction, not that 3) this is suspicious or anything), and which was then being bought with foreign assistance, is not being bought with foreign assistance.
As of this morning, at least.
Anyway, it looks like they're denying Chinese involvement to avoid a lawsuit , which is funny -- you'd think they might know someone in the Russian judiciary who could help them out.
Apparently Carly made a lot of journalistic enemies during her six hears at HP.
Not only was the catalyst for her fall from grace a Fortune article by Carol Loomis (who as far as I know is immortal -- she's been writing for Fortune since 1954), but the anti-Carly brigades are out in full force at Salon.com.
This is getting a little harsh; she might have messed up at HP (I refuse to call it by the new name, for now), but she wasn't actively trying to destroy a great company and wreck the shareholders.
It just, well, happened.
So, right, Carly was a bad manager, and she eventually got what she deserved, but she isn't evil incarnate.
I was hoping for another incredibly drawn-out story, full of antitrust drama, lurking potential bidders, and contentious confrontations between executives.
And then MCI just sort of accepted a Verizon deal without really bothering anybody.
Clearly, their corporate culture has suffered -- 25 years ago, MCI was the brawling upstart in the telecom industry, constantly challenging AT&T's right to exist, much less to monopolize the phone system.
And now, they're swallowed by Just Another Monolith.
I expected better -- meaner and tougher, sure, but better nonetheless.
Read this report on the U.S.-Russia Technology Symposium.
It's a great summary of the paradoxes of the Russian economy: They have a huge untapped supply of valuable IT labor, but their IT exports are only a tenth of their military exports (and only a thirtieth of India's IT exports).
They develop lots of new technology, but nobody can tell who owns what.
And, of course, their securities laws and property rights are even flimsier than China's -- after the Putin administration mugged Yukos on the grounds that it was too attractive a target to leave alone, they lost a lot of trust.
Still, they have an unbelieveable amount of untapped potential.
The following a grim story out of Russia tonight where there's proof some of the sailors on board that Russian nuclear submarine the Kursk initially survived the explosion that sank the sub, only to be trapped later.
One of the sailors wrote a letter during those terrible final hours.
Today, 10 weeks after a mysterious accident sent the Kursk to the bottom of the Barents sea, a grisly discovery.
In the pocket of one of the crew, a handwritten note, dying words of a sailor trapped alive in the sunken sub.
He is this lieutenant captain, seen here three years ago aboard the Kursk.
His last words tell a chilling tail -- tale of a desperate but future ill attempt to escape.
It now appears 23 survived -- survived the initial explosion.
The 23 frantically scrambled to the rear of the sub.
They find the escape hatch flooded and seal themselves in compartment nine.
Realizing he will die, he begins to write.
He addressed the letter to his wife, Olga.
He is my dear, dear beloved.
I want to see him again, read his letter.
The chilling account raises new questions and criticisms of the Russian navy, which waited several days before attempting to launch any rescue mission
But navy officials here at the Pentagon say any rescue attempt would have failed, that there really was no hope for the 23 survivors.
It's believed they would have frozen to death in hours, long before they ran out of air.
That may be little consolation for the families.
NBC News correspondent Jim Miklaszweski, the pentagon.
Program note here.
Coming up tonight at 10:00 p.m. eastern, a closer look at the Kursk and similar disasters that have taken place at sea.
An investigation is under way into a fatal airliner accident in Mexico last night.
It happened as the DC-9 was trying to land during a rainstorm.
The Aero Mexico jet skidded off a runway and into a neighborhood in the town of Reynosa, about 50 miles from Brownsville, Texas.
Four people on the ground were killed.
But the 83 people aboard the plane escaped with only scrapes and bruises.
We have been here so many times before the threat of a wider war in the middle east.
There has been impressive progress but a lasting past remains elusive.
President Clinton today considered flying to the middle east for an emergency summit meeting, but he backed away.
How did it come to this so swiftly?
Here's Andrea Mitchell.
Reporter:
The president returns to Washington today, hoping to salvage something from eight years of Middle East diplomacy.
What went wrong?
To many peace seemed so close at Camp David in July.
How did it all fall apart?
First, Palestinian resentment.
On the street, people see no economic rewards, aren't any better off after years of peace talks, and they resent the U.S. for blaming Arafat when the summit collapses while praising Israel's prime minister Barak.
The prime minister moved forward more from his initial position than chairman Arafat, particularly surrounding the questions of Jerusalem.
It's quite clear the Palestinians do not accept the various proposals put forward to divide Jerusalem.
Reporter:
Arafat appears weak, and radical groups like Hamas gain strength.
A weakened Arafat emboldens a great deal of forces that does not want peace.
Reporter:
Second, Israeli frustration.
Many Israelis feel Barak goes too far by offering Arafat partial control of the holy sites, gets nothing in return.
I think Barak was very forthcoming at Camp David.
The intransigence or failure of Arafat to come forward with any counterproposal I think frustrated the prime minister and frustrated the Israelis.
Reporter:
Finally, the summit raises false hopes, is not well prepared by Washington.
The U.S. rushes ahead, eager for a breakthrough before the end of Clinton's term.
Other Arab leaders like Mubarak of Egypt and Fahd of Saudi Arabia are not sold on the deal, tell Arafat to hold out.
If a concerted effort was put together to consult with these people and bring them on board, then probably Arafat would have been able to cut a deal.
I think the United States did not prepare adequately for Camp David.
They should have been much more careful in the preparation and more assured of getting some kind of an agreement.
Reporter:
With most observers saying that Camp David only made a bad situation worse, questions tonight as to why the president would even consider going to another summit with even less hope of a solution.
Washington.
With the presidential debate tonight in St. Louis, the candidates will be in the middle of a hot political issue that's not getting much national attention -- what to do about the Missouri river, the fabled waterway of Lewis and Clark that joins the Mississippi in St. Louis.
It's a far different river now than it once was, and the question is -- should it be allowed to return to its true form?
NBC's national correspondent is Jim Avila.
Reporter:
The wide Missouri, pioneers called it  -- too thick to drink, too thin to plow.
A shallow, slow moving, swampy river that birds and fish loved in its natural state.
The ebb and flow in a river like the Missouri provides the basis for life itself.
Reporter:
But the Missouri is no longer wild, tamed by dams and dredging.
Now a shipping highway the government says endangers the very existence of three critical river species -- the 100 million-year-old Pallid Sturgeon, the shore-wading the Least Tern.
The Missouri's natural rhythm destroyed, say the experts, by six dams in a system from north central Montana to the Mississippi River.
A transformation turning the meandering river into essentially a deep water ditch.
Without providing the higher flow in the spring and the lower flow in the summer that Missouri river species are adapted to, they're going to disappear.
Today's sturgeon can't reproduce in the river any more, only in man-made hatcheries and sand bars, homes to wading birds are being washed away by deep water.
So to save fish and birds and improve recreational use in up-river states, where tourism is a major source of income, the government wants to alter 50 years of steady water flow.
Re-creating the original river by releasing more water in spring, less in summer -- fighting words for downriver farmers and barge operators.
Try explaining that times have changed, nonsense to the people who live along the Missouri river and don't want to go back to the spring floods.
Reporter:
It's about the water and who controls it.
The Missouri, second longest river in the country.
7 states, 2,500 miles long and now according to conservationists, second on the list of rivers in danger.
Farmers say it's the planting season that's in danger if the Missouri isn't controlled in spring.
And barge owners say two dry months in the summer will ruin business.
What this proposal does is double the cost of operation on the Missouri river and will cause those companies to move off the river.
Reporter:
But according to figures from the U.S. Corps of Army Engineers, the four grain producing states along the Missouri, producing nearly 5 billion bushels of grain each year, ship very little by barge now.
16.7 million bushels.
That's .3%.
The barge companies do not own the Missouri river.
The flood plain farmers do not own the Missouri river.
Everybody owns it.
We have to find a way to share the Missouri.
Reporter:
And say environmentalists save three threatened  species and a leisure economy dependent upon a wide, untamed Missouri.
Jim Avila, NBC news, Bismarck, North Dakota.
Grief engulfed Austria, one day after a fire in a cable car filled with skiers killed at least 155 people.
It happened inside a tunnel high in the Austrian Alps.
Here's NBC's Ron Allen.
As helicopters carried emergency crews to the scene of the disaster nearly 100 Americans headed home to military bases in Germany, without eight members of their ski clubs who never came back.
Major Drew Stathis and his 8-year-old daughter say they might have been trapped, but they were just five minutes behind the group.
In the Army you kind of expect, prepare yourself.
But not on a family vacation.
That's where the tragedy is.
Lieutenant Mike Coe got tired of waiting for a train and left a family of four Americans who died, standing in line.
It is horrifying what happened to them.
And it is horrifying how close I was to -- I mean, I guess I'm a good, impatient American who did not want to wait in line.
Today this Alpine resort town came to an abrupt halt as more than 150 victims were all but positively identified.
Friends and relatives who'd been waiting and hoping were taken to a private memorial service.
Up the mountain the usually packed ski areas were completely deserted.
Investigators still haven't figured out what caused this disaster.
Several eyewitnesses have told them they saw flames coming from the train as it headed up the mountain, before it entered the tunnel.
One official here said, by the time the driver noticed the fire, it already was too late.
The main concern now is to remove and identify the victims.
These Americans ended a holiday weekend burdened by a deep sense of loss.
Nobody is looking forward to the long bus ride with our friends missing.
It's going to be hard.
Hard for this entire nation mourning the worst disaster here that anyone can remember.
Ron Allen, NBC News, Kaprun, Austria.
It's now been almost two months since the worst terror attack on a U.S. Navy ship, the destroyer "Cole," and tonight, sources tell NBC News that an American Muslim militant, a prime suspect in planning the attack, is now in custody in Jordan.
His name is Jaed Hijazi, and NBC News has learned he's got direct high-level ties to the terrorist Osama bin Laden.
He's reportedly told U.S. investigators of additional plans, to attack U.S. military aircraft in the Persian Gulf and Middle East.
I can't for the life of me figure out why anyone would invest in the airline industry.
Please, someone tell me a group companies facing more serious problems than the legacy airline carriers (Delta, US Airways, Continental, American, Northwestern, United).
High fuel costs, insane pension obligations, and a highly paid, specialized workforce.
To this list of woes, we add a whole slew of competitors with much lower cost structures.
I admit I've already taken advantage of the lower fares announced last week to book a business trip but these next few years are not going to be pretty for some of these companies.
Unfortunately, the pain is not limited to these companies.
Pittsburgh, one of US Airway's hubs, built up its airport complete with a sprawling retail complex in the terminal.
Now US Airways has reduced flights out of Pittsburgh by 28% since January of 2004 and is in real danger of folding completely.
These shiny new airports are usually financed by long-term bonds that still have to paid off.
..but not by the airlines.
This is an industry looking for a sustainable strategy.
Southwest and JetBlue were the only major airlines to earn a profit in 2004 but who knows what will be happening in another five years.
So I will thankfully accept the low fares, bemoan the loss of food on flights, and watch these companies parade in and out of bankruptcy.
BusinessWeek Online has some other commentary about the fare cuts here and about US Airway's woes here.
Thousands of people in Botswana have lined up to view the remains of an African man whose body was stuffed and exhibited in a Spanish museum for nearly a century.
The man was returned to Africa after complaints from the UN and other organizations that displaying his body was racist and offensive.
The man will be buried at a funeral service tomorrow.
You are listening to BBC news for The World.
I'm Gregor Craigy.
An apparent attack on a US warship has left at least six American sailors dead and about 35 injured.
The explosion came as the guided-missile destroyer USS Cole was refueling at a port in Yemen.
NPR's Chad Pergram reports.
Both the White House and the Pentagon said the attack appeared to be an act of terrorism.
President Clinton immediately whisked to the region investigative teams from the FBI, the Pentagon and the State Department.
The attack comes as US forces in the Middle East have been placed on a heightened state of alert after days of clashes between Israelis and Palestinians.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said the US would continue to protect its interests around the globe.
No one should doubt our resolve to remain a force for peace and for stability and no one should assume that they can force us to retreat.
No one should assume they can attack us with impunity.
The Cole had just arrived in the harbor for a refueling stop.
Officials say men aboard this small boat had been assisting the Cole with mooring lines just before the blast.
Chad Pergram ,NPR News, Washington.
The bodies of 2 more American sailors were recovered today from the USS Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden.
US officials are on the scene and continuing their investigations into the explosion that killed 17 crewmembers on board the Cole last Thursday.
Today there are reports that police in Aden questioned the landlord of an apartment where bomb-making equipment was found and whose occupants may have carried out the suicide attack against the warship.
Also today at the Cole's homeport in Norfolk, Virginia, President Clinton led a memorial service for those who died aboard the Cole.
The service began with the playing of the national anthem.
The President asked all Americans to take a moment to thank the men and women of the military.
Today we honor our finest young people, fallen soldiers who rose to freedom's challenge.
We mourn their loss, celebrate their lives, and offer the love and prayers of a grateful nation to their families.
Mr. Clinton mentioned the name of each of the 17 victims and praised the courage and character of the men and women who serve in the armed forces.
And he delivered this clear message for those who carry out attacks on members of US military.
For those who attacked them we say you will not found the safe harbor.
We will find you and justice will prevail.
America will not stop standing guard for peace, or freedom, or stability in the Middle East and around the world.
At the end of the somber ceremony, President Clinton asked everyone to join him in a moment of silence followed by the Navy Hymn and Taps.
Britain's going to establish diplomatic relations with North Korea.
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook made the announcement on his arrival in the South Korean capital, Seoul.
But Cook says establishing ties with North Korea doesn't mean London will turn a blind eye to human rights abuses in the country.
We have diplomatic relations around the world, we are going to find out who is a human rights breaker, we have very deep and very real concerns.
The advantage of having diplomatic relations is that we can have a direct dialogue in which we can raise these concerns and express our deep anxiety for the need of improvement in them.
Cook says the South Korean leadership is keen on international help in bringing its northern neighbor in from the cold.
Britain said today that it is normalizing relations with North Korea.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair called the decision a historic breakthrough.
It comes  just days ahead of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's trip to the North Korean capital Pyongyang.
Britain's foreign minister Robin Cook, who made the announcement, said opening diplomatic links could help ease tensions between North and South Korea, technically the two countries are still at war.
Germany said today that it also plans to normalize relations with Pyongyang,
Selig Harrison is a Korean affairs specialist at the Century Foundation in Washington DC.
Mr. Harrison, Britain, Italy, prior to that Australia, the Philippines now and apparently Germany all bringing the most secretive state into the fold.
How about the United States, where does that leave us?
Well, I think President Clinton will get some good political cover.
From what Britain has done, if he goes to Pyongyang, as is now being discussed, Secretary Albright is going to go, the number two man in North Korea was in Washington last week.
Things are moving, what's particularly important is that Britain has not attached any conditions.
The United States has imposed a number of conditions on normalizing with North Korea.
The most important of them is that it renounce its missile program and its nuclear weapons program, or rather reach agreements on limiting and possibly ending them both, and as of now we are not in a position to normalize relations with North Korea just like that.
We will want negotiations on some of these contested issues.
Well let me ask you more about America's interest now and Britain's move, I mean how do you make sense of what's happening, especially if Britain was involved in a war with North Korea as obviously was the United States, and until recently North Korea was considered by the US a rogue nation.
It is still shrouded in secrecy, as we said, including in its nuclear weapons program.
Are you trusting of these newly forced alliances, do you consider what Britain is doing either reckless or ill advanced?
No.
And I don't think it is an alliance really, it is just conducting diplomatic interchange with them.
It is not even clear how soon Britain is going to have a mission in Pyongyang.
And so I think it certainly isn't reckless to establish diplomatic relations, and I think indeed it is a very healthy thing because the present leadership of Kim Jong Il, son of the late General You  , he has been trying to open up to the outside world.
He doesn't want to reform his internal economic system or political controls.
On the other hand he needs western capital, he needs supportive international agencies to deal with tremendous economic problems that North Korea has had since the end of the cold war, when they lost their Russian and Chinese economic subsidies.
So that trend of North Korea opening up to the outside, it seems to be, it should be encouraged.
So then as North Korea opens up more and more, what are the possible repercussions down the road for the nearly 40,000 American troops who remain in South Korea?
Well, North Korea's attitude has been that if the United States and North Korea are friends and the North Koreans don't feel threatened, they wont object to some US forces remaining in the Korean peninsula in a new role.
That is to say, if they are going to be there as allies of South Korea against North Korea, then the North Koreans don't want them there, they will keep putting on the pressure for the US to get the forces out.
The North Koreans are certainly not going to end their missile program, if the US continues to maintain some aspects of its military presence in the Korean peninsula such as its aircraft.
So I think they are going to ask for military concessions in order to do what we want them to do regarding missiles, but I think that the assumption that this improvement in ties between North and South and between North Korea and other countries is going to lead to the complete withdrawal of the US from Korea in the near future, certainly I don't think at all, are.
Mr. Harrison, thank you very much for speaking with us.
Thank you.
Selig Harrison is a Korean affairs specialist at the Century Foundation, speaking to us from Washington DC.
Missouri residents remembered Governor Mel Carnahan today.
He died Monday night in a plane crash while campaigning for the Senate.
Thousands attended a ceremony at the Missouri State capital.
President and Mrs. Clinton were among the mourners.
A former US Army sergeant has pleaded guilty in New York to conspiracy in the bombings of American Embassies in east Africa in 1998.
Ali Mohammed, a native of Egypt, has admitted to five charges of conspiring with a Saudi born dissident Osama bin Laden to attack US targets in the Middle-East.
More than 220 people died in the blasts.
Libyan leader Colonel Gadaffi can be prosecuted in France over the bombing of a French airliner in which a 170 people were killed.
That's the ruling of a court in Paris.
It rejected an appeal that as a serving head of state Gadaffi should be immune from prosecution.
The lawyer representing the victims' families Francoise Rudetski is hailing the decision as a victory.
The victory today is that any people who committed an act of terrorism should know that he can be pursued and could be arrested and there is no immunity for anyone, any leaders in the world.
Relatives of those killed after an explosion on board the plane over Niger in 1989, brought the case against the Libyan leader.
Six Libyans including Colonel Gadaffi's brother-in-law have already been tried in their absence.
This is The World.
I am Lisa Mullins.
Putting aside a half century of acrimony, Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright met today with North Korea's leader Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang.
Part of the purpose of this historic visit is to lay the groundwork for a possible trip to North Korea by President Clinton before his term ends.
Albright's visit to Pyongyang is the first by a high level US official since the communist state was established in 1948.
Kong Dan Oh is a Korean expert who has just written a book called 'North Korea through the Looking Glass'.
She is now in the South Korean capital of Seoul.
We know that the visit is making big news there in Seoul.
Can you tell us what is being reported about the meeting between the two sides from the South Korean perspective?
Well, when I look at about six major daily newspapers, basically the top news was Madeleine Albright meeting with the Chairman Kim Jong Il.
And basically that indeed this is a very historic event, and some kind of euphoria and very positive upbeat feeling.
But at the same time, the reports are basically telling the importance of this meeting that is that they have to talk about the very critical security matter issues such as missile and nuke.
But nonetheless, the meeting was very crucial, so I think all in all, it was a very positive beginning.
And how much of South Korea as you mentioned is bordering on euphoria, get this new relationship with Pyongyang and at the visit by Secretary of State Albright?
I know that you have taken a more cautious approach, and I wonder if that applies to Secretary Albright's visit in general?
Do you believe that the US is doing the right thing?
Or is perhaps the United States, in your view, moving too quickly to try and patch things up?
I am kind of taking a slightly cautious approach, simply because if Madam Albright is there, without the really thinking down the road some kind of strategic consequences of this meeting, simply because we are interested in seeing this gentleman and maybe before our term is over, let me meet you.
I think that kind of simple approach to be wrong.
But if she understands importance of this meeting and further brings up substance of issue to be resolved between the North Korea and the United States, I think that is very desirable.
What you're saying is that you feel that the part of the impetus of the North is influenced by the fact that the United States has a presidential election just a couple of weeks away.
I think that is a definitely correct statement, provided that maybe the Republican candidate, Mr. Bush to be elected.
North Korea was very, very scared that Mr. Bush would take a much more hawkish and conservative approach.
So before this Clinton administration comes to be over, they would like to lay down the ground rules and kind of create some kind of positive improvement to deal with the United States.
And obviously one of the most important agendas for tomorrow is to discuss the possibilities of President Clinton's next visit sometime in November.
I know that you have concerns about how a potential visit by President Clinton might be portrayed within North Korea itself.
Why is that a concern of yours?
My fundamental belief is that Kim Jong Il has not really made his mind or made a decision to push the reforms, even in the session of 1978 Chinese reform that was taken by Deng Xiaoping.
He is now gambling, he is trying, but he has not really changed his manner or his policy whatsoever.
His economy and his society's politics is really getting in real deep trouble.
He has to show his power and he's been telling his people that I am the true leader and the world is afraid of us.
All the imperialist capitalist is afraid of us.
That we are the center of the universe.
Without the North Korea, the globe is not existing.
Let me show you that I am the true leader and they will come to our country to pay visit, courtesy visit for me.
And so now Putin visited, President Kim visited, Jiang Zemin will visit next year and the President Clinton will go.
Domestic consumption of this visit will be immense, without changing any policy toward the freedom of proliferation  .
Is it really possible with the kind of close watch that the outside world is now going to be invited to give to North Korea, that Kim Jong Il could actually not change a thing in terms of his policies, internally or externally?
I am exactly wondering like you, and I think that there is a maybe the possibility actually is going up.
So I don't object really any of these like U.K. normalization, you know.
I don't have any objection.
But only when the leaders and the elite, the policy elite, is aware of that what they are bringing and what they are negotiating and how they would like to have an impact on North Korean society, I think that's the important key question.
Kong Dan Oh is the author of the book 'North Korea through the Looking Glass', speaking to us from Seoul, South Korea.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World service, PRI and WGBH in Boston.
I'm Lisa Mullins.
American spy suspect Edmund Pope took the stand again today in a Moscow courtroom.
The former naval intelligence officer faces charges of stealing secret designs for a high-speed Russian torpedo system.
Pope denies acting illegally and President Clinton and Secretary Of State Madeleine Albright have called for his release on health grounds but Russian prosecutors are pressing ahead as The World's Nenad Sebek reports from Moscow.
The trial was suspended earlier in the week because of Pope's poor health.
Pope has a history of bone cancer but a doctor working for the FSB, the Russian security service, pronounced Pope fit enough to stand trial today.
The proceedings are held behind closed doors and Pope's lawyer said today that his client is still very weak and that he wants a new interpreter, says the current one works for the same agency that has charged Pope.
The lawyer Pavel Astakhov says his client is innocent when it comes to espionage.
The whole case as Astakhov claims is an exercise in politics.
This is the first time in almost 40 years that a foreign national is being tried for espionage.
It's quite blatant.
Officials from the security force, which used to be the KGB, are openly boasting about taking an American citizen to court.
Way back in 1961 US military pilot Garry Powers was tried and sentenced but later on exchanged for a captured Soviet spy.
But Powers was caught red-handed.
His U2 spy plane was brought down by Soviet Air Defenses.
Pope was arrested as he was trying to purchase blue prints for what he says is a 10-year-old underwater propulsion system or as the prosecutions claims ultra modern, secret Russian torpedoes.
Former Russian Army Intelligence Officer, Vitaly Schlykov says Pope could easily have been a victim of the Russian obsession with secrets.
We have of course a secrecy culture in this country for decades and decades and reminisce of it are coming to the surface in this case.
The laws on secrecy are still intact from the times of the Soviet Union.
Guilty or not, Pope is being held under a very harsh regime in the Moscow Lefortovo prison where his wife Sherry visited him last week.
We took two pictures of our grandson and they won't let him keep the pictures and I took a coat and gloves and they wouldn't let him have those, but we did get to embrace and we did get to talk about our family for one hour.
Prison rules say that an inmate can only receive approved gifts on the first and third Thursday in a month.
And Sherry Pope's short-term visa didn't enable her to stay that long.
She says she even appealed to the Russian President.
Ed's mother and I both wrote letters to President to ask him to please take into consideration that Ed is 54 years old and that we want him home.
Military intelligence analyst Vitaly Schlykov says Putin is probably caught between a rock and a hard place when it comes to the American's trail.
I'm sure that it came unexpected for Putin.
He wouldn't have approved on a case like this because politically it is very harmful but he came from the ranks of the FSB himself.
He has to pretend that he is sticking to his guns in this case.
In Schlykov's opinion, Pope is likely to get convicted.
But he believes that immediately after the sentencing Pope is likely to be pardoned by Moscow.
US Congressman John Peterson, who has been championing Pope's cause, says he fears that might be too late for Pope.
The main thing we have been pushing for months is health care.
Earlier we had asked for an American doctor to see him.
When they continued to say no then we found Russian doctors.
The judge delayed the trial for a day and a half so we could furnish her with a list of doctors and hospitals in Moscow and after we provided that information she said no.
Pope's lawyer Pavel Astakhov says that what the authorities here call medical care is a joke.
In Pope's case medical control means everyday testing for his suspected cancer.
What they do here is take his blood pressure and temperature.
The very least they could do is take blood tests and bone marrow tests.
The court has even rejected our demand for medical expertise to establish whether he is fit to stand trial.
As Strakovs says he does not trust the Judge Nina Barkova at all.
He says she has rejected almost every one of his 40 objections and suggestions during the trail so far.
Strakovs is now trying to arrange for fresh witnesses for his defense of Edmund Pope, but is not hopeful that even that will be granted by the court.
For The World, this is Nenad Sebek in Moscow.
In Moscow, today there was a dramatic plot twist in a real life courtroom drama.
A lawyer for US spy suspect, Edmond Pope said that the main prosecution witness has retracted his testimony.
According to Pope's attorney the witness said he provided the evidence under pressure from the Russian Secret Service.
Ever since Pope was arrested 7 months ago, the American businessmen has denied charges that he was gathering secret information on a new high-speed Russian torpedo.
The World's Nenad Sebek is following the trial in Moscow.
Nenad, go back and tell us just how we got here?
Who is Edwin Pope and why is he on trial in Russia?
Well, Edwin Pope is a retired American intelligence officer and that's sort of speaks against him when it comes to the Russian public and certainly the Russian court.
He has claimed that he is now just an innocent businessman, who was dealing with the Russian businesses orbit in the Defense Industry.
He has, however, claimed that he is only dealing with the de-classified military material and that when it comes to these torpedoes that we are talking about, that he was buying an underwater propulsion system, which is 10-years old.
What the Russian prosecution is claiming is that Pope was actually after ultramodern secret high-speed Russian torpedoes.
Okay, so tell us what happened in the trial this morning and bring in this professor from one of Moscow's elite universities who is a key witness?
The big news of today was that Pope's attorney distributed to journalists this morning a letter, which he says was written by Anatoly Babkin, who is a Professor at Moscow's Bauman Technical Institute, who until now was considered to be the main witness for the prosecution.
He says that he gave that evidence under pressure having had a grave heart condition proceeding a heart attack.
Professor Babkin says that he never actually met Edwin Pope face to face, nor has he given him any kind of sensitive information, therefore, his former testimony is to be considered as not corresponding to reality says this letter by Professor Babkin.
However, the court today again, this is what we were told by Pope's lawyer, has decided not to accept this change in testimony.
The court said that Professor Babkin had ample opportunities to appear in the court.
What is not clear at this moment is that whether it will allow a personal appearance by Professor Babkin, in which he could sort of say what he said in this letter.
Then I would assume that the Professor is still ailing.
I mean, is he able to take the stand, is there any indication that he will be asked to?
No he is not able to take the stand at the moment.
He is recuperating after a heart attack, but Pope's lawyer has said that court session could actually take place in the apartment of Professor Babkin.
We still have to wait and see whether the court will accept that.
So how important is this evidence?
I mean how pivotal a figure is he?
Is he providing evidence of no one else can?
Well.
From what we have heard so far, this is supposed to be like a key witness, a very important witness, but then the first reaction came from the FSB, the Federal Security Bureau, which is the former KGB, they are the ones who are prosecuting Pope.
Their spokesman said today that their evidence is far from being based only on Babkin's testimony.
He said that FSB has evidence given by other witnesses and experts, as well as, written documents and videos.
This is not, what would know as a standards of American style trial certainly, first of all of the proceedings are conducted entirely in secret.
What is the defense attorney for Edmond Pope saying about the conduct in the trial?
Well.
He is very unhappy with the main judge.
Pope is not being tried by Jury.
He has been tried by panel of judges headed by judge Nina Barkova and what we have heard from the defense attorney Pavel Astakhov is that she has rejected almost every single one of over 40 objections and suggestions that he has so far submitted during the case.
He is very unhappy with the way she has been conducting the whole case and also with the fact that she has denied Edmund Pope the proper medical attention that he has asked for.
And what has like that it happened should Edmond Pope get convicted.
Would he actually serve time?
Well.
Most of the people I have spoken here believe that that would not be the case, that since the case is already being brought to court that he is most likely to get convicted, but will then afterwards be pardoned either by the president or the parliament, and then sent back home for reasons of ill health, but most people here do expect a conviction at the end of this trial.
It was Nenad Sebek in Moscow talking to us about the espionage trial in Moscow of American Edmond Pope.
Thank you very much Nenad.
You are welcome Lisa.
This is PRI, Public Radio International.
A court in Moscow has convicted American businessman Edmund Pope of spying and sentenced him to 20 years in prison.
Pope, a retired naval officer from Pennsylvania, was accused of illegally obtaining secret blueprints for a high speed Russian torpedo.
He argued throughout the case that the information he obtained was already available to the public.
The White House denounced the court action calling it unjustified and wrong.
Pope's wife and his lawyers have also called for his release on health grounds, saying that he suffers from a rare form of bone cancer, which may have returned during his eight months in a Russian prison.
Corey Flintoff, NPR News, Washington.
A court in Moscow today sentenced American businessman Edmund Pope to 20 years in jail.
Pope, a former naval officer, was found guilty of collecting secret blueprints for a high speed Russian torpedo.
Pope denied the charges and he had a powerful ally.
President Clinton had appealed for clemency for Pope on health grounds and had brought the case up with Russian President Vladimir Putin, but Mr. Clinton's pleas apparently fell on deaf ears.
The Russian court today handed down the maximum sentence.
Still, The World's Nenad Sebek in Moscow says that Pope has not yet exhausted his legal options.
He has got 7 days to appeal this particular sentence.
There is also the possibility of asking for a presidential pardon, Pope has actually indeed already done that.
It's just that his wife said that she has not heard neither from the President nor his office.
His health is a big issue as well, isn't it?
Yes, Pope has been suffering from a rare bone cancer in the past and he has been consistently complaining about his health ever since last Spring when he was taken in to the Lefortovo prison.
The thing is that he has not been allowed any access to American doctors and even to Russian doctors of his own choosing.
He has been examined by the Russian doctors in the Lefortovo prison but they have just said that his complaints are unfounded and that it might be a case of severe rheumatism or something like that.
They are not sort of allowing the possibility of his bone cancer reoccurring.
One of the things that has been said here is that Mr. Pope may have run afoul of a changing mood in Russia about what kind of military and security information might be made available to the west for business purposes.
That his intentions were innocent to begin with, but the times changed and what he did began to look more and more like espionage.
That is certainly a possibility but we don't know actually precisely because we don't even know what the initial charges are.
The whole trial was held behind closed doors and the details of the accusations against Pope have never been fully released.
We know that the prosecution claimed that he was trying to purchase secret plans for a top-secret high-speed Russian torpedo.
He was claiming all the time, and his lawyer was saying that he was sort of trying to purchase plans that had been actually out in the open but we do not know the precise legals of that.
That is one of the possibilities.
Another thing which is mentioned here is that Pope simply ran afoul of a new trend in Russia which was a trend where the security services were getting the upper hand where they were trying to prove that they are actually doing their job, that they are catching spies, that they are getting convictions.
We have, for example, today's reaction by General Alexander Zdanovich, he is the head of the FSB support programs.
He was very, very brief in his comments after the sentencing.
He said that the court has said that FSB investigators have acted correctly and in accordance with the law and he says, "Russia has its secrets, we will do our best to protect them".
Maybe Pope simply ran afoul of such attempts by the Russian Security Services to show that they are doing their job.
Putin, on the one hand, is certainly trying to show that he is in charge and that no one from the outside is going to get away with anything.
By the same token though he is not eager to run afoul of the United States and the State Department is very upset.
Is there any possibility that Mr. Putin might consider a pardon?
I would say there is a very strong possibility of that.
We know that President Clinton has spoken to Vladimir Putin about this when they met last time, and certainly the Secretary of State Madeleine Albright has brought up the issue a number of times, as has the State Department indeed with the Russian Foreign Ministry.
In a curious way the sentencing of Edmund Pope might be the beginning of an end of this ordeal for him.
Because now that there is a sentence, once the judiciary process is started, once the FSB brought him to trial everybody here expected that the trial will end and that it will end with a conviction.
But now that this judicial process is over there is a very, very strong likelihood, that's the feeling here in Moscow that President Vladimir Putin might pardon Edmund Pope.
There is a good reason for that, his ill health.
So it would be a nice humanitarian gesture and a way of offering a friendly hand to the west and to the United States in particular.
The World's Nenad Sebek in Moscow.
Thanks a lot, Nenad.
You are welcome.
The United States is hoping that Russia's President Vladimir Putin will follow the advice of his special commission and pardon Edmund Pope.
This week the American businessman began serving a 20-year prison sentence in Moscow after being convicted of spying.
Specifically Russian prosecutors charged that Pope had stolen secrets relating to a high-speed Russian torpedo.
Pope denied the charges and Washington backed him up.
Marsha Lipman is Editor of Moscow based news magazine 'Itogi'.
Marsha, did the Presidential Pardons Commission give any reason for their decision?
It gave several reasons.
I am not sure if those were the formal reasons but members of the commission have been interviewed today by various outlets and they say that they were afraid of the spy mania rising in Russia, that they thought it was really suspicious to them that Edmund Pope was sentenced to the maximum term, whereas the article of the law had 10 to 20 years.
He was sentenced to 20, even though according to the members of the Pardon Commission, the evidence that was presented by the prosecution was far from quotient.
They also said this court did not give the lawyers for the defense due procedure.
The court listened to the defense much less than it did to the prosecution.
Much of this sounds less like a pardon and more like a criticism of the number of institutions that Mr. Putin also has to show some support of,  including his court system and his police and his prosecutors.
How is he going to respond to this and when?
I don't think anybody knows and I don't think anybody will know until President Putin has responded.
It is his decision.
According to the Russian law the Pardon Commission, after it has made its decision, sends it to the President and it's up to him whether to endorse it or not to say no.
One last question for you, Marsha.
He does have a lot to balance doesn't he, President Putin?
Not only the institutions I mentioned but the need to keep things somehow free of tension.
Is this case likely to strain US-Russian relations?
I'm afraid it might.
Recently the Russian policy toward the US has fallen into a line where Russia tries to demonstrate force it once had but no longer does.
It wants to put an end to what is regarded by the current Russian government as humiliation of the past years.
There were numerous attempts to be a source of minor troubles even though Russia can no longer be a source of scare to the west and among such instances there were several, there was just recently flying over by Russian military planes over Kitty Hawk, an American warship.
There is also a scandal that erupted over Russia's declaration that it will sell weapons to Iran, contrary to the earlier made agreement.
Such examples are quite a few already, some of them are combined with material profits for Russia but not necessarily.
Marsha Lipman is Editor of the Moscow based news magazine 'Itogi'.
Marsha,  thank you very much for speaking with us.
Pleasure.
Edmund Pope tasted freedom today for the first time in more than eight months.
Pope is the American businessman who was convicted last week on spying charges and sentenced to 20 years in a Russian prison.
He denied any wrongdoing.
Russian President Vladimir Putin pardoned him for health reasons.
Pope was flown to the U.S. military base at Ramstein, Germany.
He will spend the next several days at the medical center there before he returns home with his wife Sherry.
Pope was in remission from a rare form of bone cancer when he was arrested in Russia.
Doctors will examine him for signs that the cancer may have come back while he awaiting trial in a Russian jail.
A spokeswoman said that Pope was suffering from malnutrition and high blood pressure.
Congratulations from foreign leaders poured into the governor's mansion in Texas today.
The messages were addressed to President-elect George W. Bush and they all contained words of welcome and optimism.
But truth be told for most international figures, Bush is something of an unknown.
He has traveled little and his diplomatic experience is limited to contacts with Mexican officials during his tenure as governor.
The World's Jeb Sharp has been hunting down clues to the foreign policy of the incoming administration.
A few broad foreign policy themes emerged during the campaign.
Chief among them are debate over the wisdom of US intervention.
Bush clearly favors limiting the use of American force and troops to solve conflicts overseas.
Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says that view is consistent with the philosophies of two top Bush advisors, Russia expert Condoleezza Rice and retired General Colin Powell.
Certainly, Condoleezza Rice, certainly Colin Powell who I expect, the two of them to be the dominant force in the next administration on foreign policy.
I certainly think they believe they would like to not intervene as much as the Clinton administration or I guess the previous Bush administration did.
In fact, Condoleezza Rice who is slated to become Bush's National Security Advisor has already said she'd like to see US troops pulled home from the Balkans.
But, Robert Kagan says its one thing for Bush's advisors to state a philosophy, its quite another to implement it.
I think they may find the world has a way of intruding itself and that it won't be that easy to pull forces out of the Balkans for instance, without destroying the NATO alliance.
After Rice made some comments about having a new division of labor, I think that was the word she used with regard to NATO and peacekeeping issues, there was a riot in Europe and the real fears that the United States was getting ready to withdraw from the continent and I think they had to walk that back a little bit.
The Balkans is just one example where the Bush administration will have to walk a fine line in delineating a different approach from that of Mr. Clinton.
The foreign policy challenges facing the next President are daunting.
The Mid East peace process is on hold with Israelis and Palestinians practically at war.
The sanctions regime against Iraq has unraveled.
Russia and China are alarmed at the prospect of America beefing up its missile defenses.
India and Pakistan, now nuclear powers are locked in a dangerous standoff.
Stability in East Asia is another pressing concern.
But despite the challenges, Northeast Asia expert Bates Gil of the Brookings Institution is encouraged by what he knows of the Bush foreign team.
One of the most interesting aspects of the new likely team under the Bush administration is first of all, extensive experience in defense and military affairs.
Secondly, it's easy to point to a number of persons who will have leading positions who have had extensive experience in East Asian affairs.
So you have a combination of depth of experience plus an understanding of the region.
Both of which will come in handy if there is a crisis with China over Taiwan or relations with North Korea deteriorate.
In such a crisis, Bush is likely to rely on the advice of government officials who cut their teeth during the cold war.
Some critics like Gore advisor Bruce Jentelson worry that the Bush team will be out of step with today's issues.
Issues related to globalization, global public health, technology, and those challenges.
Yet in my view a truly realistic policy cannot be based only on the old agenda issues, really has to address these new agenda issues as well.
But no matter what sort of expertise Bush's international affairs people bring to the White House, they won't be able to fully control what happens on their watch.
Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says each President's foreign policy is ultimately shaped by events, not theories.
Really, most of a President's foreign policy comes down to how they respond to specific events.
Bill Clinton did not come in to office intending to send troops to Haiti and the Balkans, and events sort of forced his hand and I think that, you know, the truth is Bush administration comes in with certain kinds of prejudices, but we will have to see how they respond to crises.
And the only thing that I'm confident of is that there will be crises.
President-elect Bush is expected to begin naming his top cabinet picks in the next few days.
Those choices will mean everything when the first crisis rolls around.
For The World, I'm Jeb Sharp.
In 1998, the United States voted against the creation of the World's first permanent International War Crimes Court.
President Clinton still has a chance to sign the treaty creating the Court before a final deadline this Sunday.
Advocates are pressing him to do just that, but Conservatives in Congress and Pentagon officials don't want the US to join the treaty.
The World's Jeb Sharp explains why.
Jesse Helms, the Conservative and powerful Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has made it clear the Rome's statuette would be dead on arrival if it were brought to Congress for ratification.
But proponents of the permanent International Criminal Court would still like to see President Clinton at least sign the treaty before the New Year's eve deadline.
Richard Dicker of Human Rights Watch says Clinton's signature would be an important symbolic gesture.
What he will accomplish is making a clear statement that the United States not only in the former Yugoslavia, not only in Rwanda, not only in Cambodia, not only in Sierra Leone, where the administration has supported efforts at justice, but worldwide the United States supports the rule of law and supports holding those accused of genocide to account under the highest standards of due process.
But the opposition here in the United States is intense.
It comes mainly from the Pentagon where US military officials fear the Court will leave Americans vulnerable to politically motivated prosecutions.
Negotiators have tried to include safeguards in the treaty to address those fears, but stop short of exempting US personnel from prosecution.
John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute shares the Pentagon's objections.
I think there is every prospect such a court and its prosecutor would be highly politicized and the principal target of a court like this might well turn out to be the United States or Israel or other countries like that.
Bolton says that almost happened at the War Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, when Chief Prosecutor Carla Delponte briefly contemplated an investigation of NATO's bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999.
But proponents of the court say it's healthy for the United States and its allies to come under the same scrutiny as other countries.
Richard Dicker of Human Rights Watch says Delponte's handling of the NATO case was exemplary.
Carla Delponte was acting as any responsible prosecutor must when she receives credible allegations of wrongdoing.
She looked into those allegations and then after an appropriate investigation she dismissed them.
Richard Dicker says President Clinton should keep the promise he made to the Rwandan people in 1998 when he told survivors of the genocide there the United States would support the International Court.
But John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute says a Clinton signature in the face of stiff domestic opposition would be meaningless.
I think it's a symbolic act that doesn't achieve much, but I don't think anybody internationally should think that whatever President Clinton does will have the slightest impact on the next administration.
Despite American objections, the International Criminal Court enjoys wide support worldwide and among major US allies.
131 countries have signed the treaty, 7 today and 25 have ratified it.
60 nations in all must ratify the treaty for the International Criminal Court to come into existence.
That's expected to happen, with or without US support, in 2002.
For The World, I'm Jeb Sharp.
This is PRI, Public Radio International.
Got job?
And so, I have rejoined the world of the fully employed.
After Christmas, I got a call from the wife of one of my former bosses (at my last full-time job).
She was looking for a Development Assistant at the retirement community where she works.
I started here 4 weeks ago.
WM is affiliated with, but not run or fully supported by, the denomination I've been a part of all my life (UMC).
My grandmother (who was Baptist) lived here for a few months before she died in 1995, so I have many connections to the job.
Our offices are in one of the patio homes, and I have my own lovely office with a window.
The job's only about 12 miles from home, and I'm going against the bulk of the traffic mornings and afternoons.
It all seems perfect and yet.
.. Oh, I'm so thankful to be somewhere so nice where I might actually make a difference in people's lives, and I want to keep an open mind and hope it'll last forever, but I have a feeling I'll be restless within a year or so.
My boss is a very nice person, but conservative and resistant to technology, i.e. computers, internet, etc.
We just got new computers a week and half ago, and she's griping about XP (her old OS was Windows 98--mine was 95, so I'm thrilled with the new stuff).
I tell her it'll just take some getting used to.
We'll see.
I'm not making the kind of salary I was hoping to get, but it's the best salary I've gotten thus far.
When I was fulltime in radio I made a little less, but I got quite a few remotes, which make up for not getting a topnotch salary.
I'm still doing my TV announcing and my weekend radio stuff, so that money will help.
I'm going to start actively pursuing more voice work in the next month or so, too.
My plan is to pay off my car early, and then work on the other debts.
I think it's time to go on and fill out the adoption applications.
I'm terrified of more debt, but Mom and Dad will help with the money.
I'm not sure they realize how expensive it all is.
I'm thinking we might lean toward adopting from Guatemala, but we've still not hashed it all out.
It's almost bad making some money now, because while most of me wants to save as much as possible, the other, smaller part is screaming loudly for stuff, stuff, stuff!!!
I've got a trial subscription to XM at work because of the Dell computers, and now I'm lusting to have it all of the time.
G got me a nice office stereo for my birthday and it does have an aux jack, so I could listen to it here.
He asked if I wanted a car stereo, and I said no, but I do.
There are so many things I want.
A garage.
A dining room set.
New stuff for our house.
New clothes.
New everything.
But I want family more.
I think part of the draw of the other stuff is I could get it now.
But I'd be paying for it later.
Money makes the world go round and round and round til I'm just dizzy.
A Moscow court has denied a request by US spy suspect Edmond Pope for a medical examination, despite his rare bone cancer.
Mr. Pope's condition has gone untreated since he was jailed five months ago.
Russia accuses the former US naval intelligence officer of illegally obtaining secrets about a high-tech Russian torpedo.
On Friday the court denied a series of defense motions that also included a request to tape the proceedings and replace the court translator, who works for Russian security.
The trial opened Wednesday and has been suspended until Monday.
Ivory Coast's army has pledged its loyalty to opposition candidate Loran Gbagbo.
The pledge followed a tumultuous 24 hours that ended the rule of the junta, which seized power last December.
Soldiers and civilians took to the streets to celebrate the departure of junta leader General Robert Guei.
In an address on state television, Wednesday, Mr. Gbagbo, leader of the Ivorian Socialist party, said he would be forming a cabinet shortly.
A Russian scientist has told a Moscow City court that the information an American businessman allegedly tried to purchase about a Russian torpedo is commonly available and not a state secret.
The scientist, an expert on the torpedo and a defense witness at the trial of businessman Edmond Pope said he had often used the torpedo information for his research and had spoken openly about it.
A defense lawyer said the testimony would help his client.
In Yemen, a bomb threat has forced the tightening of security at the hotel housing US investigators probing the attack on the USS Cole.
Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon told reporters the situation caused the Secretary of Defense to call US field commanders.
The Secretary held a video conference call with all the commanders in chiefs, as well as the service chiefs and the service secretaries and the topic was force protection.
The hotel has been hosting scores of investigators who are looking into the apparent suicide bomb attack on the navy destroyer that killed 17 US sailor two weeks ago.
The US Navy destroyer damaged apparently by a terrorist bomb while refueling at the Red Sea port Aden has begun its journey back to the States for repair.
As Dave Gavlak reports, the USS Cole was towed out of the Aden harbor to awaiting Norwegian transport ship, that will actually carry the damaged destroyer home.
The American national anthem played as four tug boats pulled the USS Cole slowly out of Yemen's Southern port of Aden.
The Cole was badly damaged two weeks ago in an apparent suicide bombing that killed 17 US sailors.
Security was tight as the ship was towed out.
American and Yemeni patrol boats mounted with machine guns escorted the Cole out to open waters while American helicopters flew overhead.
Some Yemenis expressed relief to see the ship leave.
Many locals said they feared the bombing of the ship would serve as an excuse for continued US military presence in the Gulf country.
Diplomats and analysts have commented that a joint investigation into the attack may in fact strengthen ties between the world super power and the poor, but strategic Arab state.
US and Yemeni officials say they believe Islamic militants may have carried out the bombing.
So far two little known Islamic groups have claimed responsibility for the attack.
Yemeni authorities claimed they have detained over 70 people for questioning.
These include some Afghan-Arab volunteers who came to Yemen after fighting against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s.
Dave Gavlak for VOA News, Cairo.
And this is VOA News now.
I'm Tom Crosby.
As we have been reporting, the White House confirms Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat are going to meet separately with President Clinton later this week.
Meanwhile, there has been continued trouble in the streets of West Bank and the Gaza Strip with at least two more Palestinians killed, Sunday in clashes with Israeli troops.
Laurie Kassman reports the trouble came despite an impassioned plea from Prime Minister Barak that Mr. Arafat rein in the rioters and return to the negotiating table.
On Saturday, Palestinians reported more than 30 injuries.
But reports of the fighting also talked of a drop in the level of violence, since both sides agreed to a cease-fire late Wednesday night.
More than 170 Palestinians have died and more than 6000 are reported to have been wounded in clashes with the Israeli military.
Several Israeli soldiers and civilians have also been killed.
Shopkeepers in East Jerusalem are being urged to close their doors to protest against the killing of two Palestinian teenagers on Friday, Southeast of Jerusalem.
Both Arab and Israeli businesses are suffering from the latest violence.
A shopkeeper in the Arab town of Jaffa, which is adjacent to Tel Aviv, complains that few Israelis venture into the area since clashes erupted there a few weeks ago.
Jaffa is usually bustling with Israeli and foreign tourists.
All our work is dependent totally on the Jews.
If they are not coming, so really we cannot work.
I mean, what happens that the Arabs here, the 20,000 Arabs in is dependent on the Jews going to their market and the Jews coming here.
So we cannot live, I mean, we are really totally paralyzed right now.
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat have agreed to meet separately with US President Bill Clinton to see how to ease tensions and get the peace process back on track.
The meetings will take place later in the week after the US presidential vote on Tuesday.
Laurie Kassman, VOA News, Jerusalem.
US Defense Secretary William Cohen plans to travel next week to nine Middle Eastern Gulf states for meetings with regional leaders.
Mr. Cohen will depart next Tuesday to visit Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Israel, Jordan and Egypt.
The Pentagon says, the Secretary will consult with defense officials in those countries and also visit US troops in the area.
US forces in the Gulf have been on high alert, since last month's apparent terrorist bombing of the USS Cole, which killed 17 sailors.
An explosion struck the Cole, as it refueled in the Yemeni port of Aden.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair arrives in Russia today for talks with Vladimir Putin on security, foreign policy, and economic issues.
They are also expected to discuss a new Russian proposal for deep cuts in US and Russian long-range missiles.
VOA's Larry James in Moscow.
The highlight of the one-day visit will be three hours of talks on Tuesday, during which Mr. Blair and Mr. Putin will focus on a wide range of issues including Russia's latest call for cutting the number of strategic nuclear warheads to below 1500.
President Clinton has said such a deal is possible, but that it will be first necessary to convince Moscow of the merits of America's proposed Missile Defense System.
The US wants to amend the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty so it can develop such a system.
Russia believes such a move could spark a new arms race and has threatened to tear up existing weapons agreements and stop disarmament talks if the United States goes ahead.
On Sunday Mr. Putin called on the Russian parliament to quickly ratify the amended Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty.
That treaty requires Russia to make further non-nuclear weapons reductions in some areas of the country including breakaway Chechnya.
President Putin acknowledged that Russia is still violating its commitment in Chechnya, but he said it is only a temporary situation which has the ultimate aim of cutting armaments in the region.
He also thanked the 29 other signatories to the treaty for their understanding.
He said Russia is fully behind the agreement that, he said, is an efficient instrument of ensuring security in Europe for years to come.
The original treaty was signed in 1990 and led to the destruction of thousands of heavy weapons by NATO and the former Warsaw Pact.
Tony Blair became the first western leader to come to Russia to meet the new President last March even before Mr. Putin was elected.
The Russian leader returned the favor by making London one of his first foreign destinations after taking office.
The two have already met four times this year.
Analysts here in Moscow believe Britain can play a useful role as a bridge to both Europe and the United States.
Trade is also expected to figure significantly in the talks.
Britain ranks as the third largest investor after the United States and Germany with just slightly more than $1 billion invested in Russia.
Larry James, VOA News, Moscow.
More than 50 people are dead in Nigeria, after a leaking oil pipeline burst into flames outside the commercial capital, Lagos.
The blast and resulting fire Thursday, ripped through an area near a fuel-loading depot owned by the state-run Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation.
Witnesses report seeing burnt bodies littering the charred grounds while many other victims are being treated for injuries sustained in the blaze.
A spokeswoman for the Petroleum Company says the fire was caused by vandals.
The Voice of America presents differing points of view on a wide variety of issues.
Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United States government.
For nearly 20 years, the world has faced the challenge posed by AIDS.
Since 1988, the first day of December has been designated by the United Nations as World AIDS Day.
This is the time to disseminate information and faster cooperation in the battle against AIDS, the number one cause of infectious disease in the world.
The picture of the epidemic is bleak.
According to a new UN study, in the past year over five million people have been infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
Since the beginning of the epidemic, about 22 million people have died of the disease.
While infections among adults are decreasing, infections among children are increasing.
Many of these cases are in sub-Saharan Africa where infected mothers are transmitting the virus to their babies during delivery.
Africa accounts for more than four-fifths of the world's AIDS-related deaths.
In some African countries, one out of four adults is infected with HIV.
But Eastern Europe has seen the biggest explosion of new infections.
In Russia, the rate of infection has more than doubled this year to 300,000.
South and Southeast Asia are other high-risk areas with five and three quarter million adults and children now living with HIV or AIDS.
In too many places, discussion of AIDS is taboo and the disease is shrouded in mystery and misinformation.
But as the grim statistics make clear, it is critical that the governments and citizens of those nations most affected by AIDS, do their part to recognize the scope of the epidemic and act decisively to confront it.
As President Bill Clinton said, we must work together to break the silence, to fight the stigmatization and protect the rights of those living with HIV and AIDS, and to help those infected find the care and treatment they need.
We must pledge to stay the course in our crusade until the world is finally freed from the shadow of this devastating epidemic.
Welcome to another hour of news and information on the Voice of America.
I'm David Chadwick, with VOA News now.
The death toll in Colombia from three days of heavy fighting between soldiers and rebels now stands at more than 100.
At least 54 soldiers and 50 guerillas have died in clashes around the northwestern cities of Bagado and Dabeiba.
Nearly all of the buildings, government buildings in those two cities, have been reportedly destroyed.
The clashes began Wednesday, when the rebel revolutionary armed forces of Colombia launched attacks on a number of northwestern towns.
An army helicopter went down close to the border with Panama, killing all 22 soldiers on board.
In South Asia, authorities in Bangladesh's Southwestern port of Mongla have called on the Army to control riots that have left at least four people dead and 58 injured.
Officials say the trouble began when striking dock workers tried to storm the port authority offices and police fired to disperse them.
The demonstrators are demanding that more people be hired to load and unload goods at the port.
Beginning early next year, visitors to Yosemite National Park in California will see some changes.
A new plan is aimed at protecting the giant Sequoia trees, scenic valleys, and waterfalls from the impact of four million tourists a year.
Under the new plan, visitors will have very limited access to the park by car.
The 343 million-dollar plan will create a new shuttle bus system to alleviate traffic congestion.
It will also remove roads from meadows, create more hiking trails, and restore campsites damaged by a 1997 flood.
Yosemite spokesman Scott Gediman says while these measures have been controversial, the preservation effort will not sacrifice visitor enjoyment.
And so we certainly do not want to limit access or will not limit access to the National Park, but we need to design the facilities, design parking areas, design the infrastructure in a way that we can handle these large amounts of people.
Yosemite is not alone in seeking new management strategies to preserve natural areas.
Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona is putting in a light rail system.
And Zion National Park in Utah has just established a new shuttle bus system.
With environment briefs, I'm Roseanne Skirble.
President Clinton has urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to order the release on humanitarian grounds of a US businessman convicted of spying.
A White House spokesman says the two leaders spoke by telephone today, after the Russian government's pardon commission recommended the release of Edmond Pope.
Earlier, a senior Russian official said Edmond Pope could be home by Christmas.
The former US naval intelligence officer was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in prison Wednesday, on charges he illegally obtained a classified information on a Russian torpedo.
Colombia's second largest Marxist rebel army has released forty-two soldiers and police officers.
Government officials say the National Liberation Army freed the captives today in Northern Colombia.
The forty-two prisoners were captured two years ago during clashes with the guerilla group.
Hardly a day passes without news photos of the police dragging limp protesters from some building or thoroughfare in one of our cities.
Of recent note are the activities of the pro- and anti-abortionists, anti-nuclear activists, animal rights protesters, college students concerned about racism, anti-apartheid groups, various self-styled "environmentalists" and those dissatisfied with the pace of the war against AIDS.
Maybe he didn't start it, but Mohandas Gandhi certainly provided a recognizable beginning to non-violent civil disobedience as we know it today.
The Mahatma, or "great souled one," instigated several campaigns of passive resistance against the British government in India.
Unfortunately, according to Webster's Biographical Dictionary, "His policies went beyond his control and resulted . . . in riots and disturbances" and later a renewed campaign of civil disobedience "resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment."
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did, but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.
It is difficult, however, to justify civil disobedience, non-violent or not, where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change.
Where truly representative governments are safeguarded by constitutional protections of human rights and an independent judiciary to construe those rights, there is no excuse for breaking the law because some individual or group disagrees with it.
There may be a few cases where the law breaking is well pinpointed and so completely non-invasive of the rights of others that it is difficult to criticize it.
The case of Rosa Parks, the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus, comes to mind as an illustration.
But most cases of non-violent civil disobedience are not nearly so benign.
The public has a tendency to equate lawful demonstrations with non-violent civil disobedience.
It is true that both are non-violent, but there is a fundamental difference between them.
Lawful demonstrations, such as peaceful picketing and other assemblages that do not disturb the peace or cause a public nuisance or interfere with the rights of others, are rights guaranteed by any truly free system of government.
Civil disobedience, violent or non-violent, is intentional law breaking.
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience; but, before we get on with that, let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations.
They are useful to call public attention to grievances, but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute.
The delight of television in dramatic confrontation encourages overuse of slogans chanted through bullhorns, militant gestures, accusatory signs and other emotionally inspired tactics.
Civilized discourse and an environment where compromise can begin are lost in a hostile posture abetted by superficial media interviews.
At best, demonstrations are overused and boringly uninformative; at worst, they can become the stimuli that lead to law breaking.
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct when they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile.
Petty criminals and street people looking for excitement attach themselves like remora to the fringes of the crowd and use the protest as an excuse for rock throwing, auto trashing, arson, window breaking, looting, pocket picking and general hooliganism.
Soon the whole purpose of the demonstration is lost in mob mania.
There are better ways to promote a cause.
Where non-violent civil disobedience is the centerpiece, rather than a lawful demonstration that may only attract crime, it is difficult to justify.
Some find no harm in the misdemeanors of trespass, minor property destruction, blocking traffic and the like.
They say these are small prices to pay for galvanizing action for the all-important cause.
The crimes may appear small, but the prices can be huge.
Here are two cases to illustrate.
Assume a neighborhood demonstration to protest speeding on a certain road or a careless accident involving a police car.
The protesters lie down in the street, blocking traffic, and will not move until the authorities carry them away.
Assume that someone caught in the jam has a heart attack.
There is no way to get an ambulance in quickly to move him to a hospital.
He dies.
The demonstration was non-violent and involved only a simple misdemeanor, but its impact on that individual was violent and terminal.
Assume that a TV network is airing a celebrity interview program with a live audience.
The politician appearing is highly controversial and has recently generated a good deal of rancor amid certain groups.
In a planned protest against his appearance, several members of the studio audience chain themselves in front of the TV cameras in such a way that the program cannot continue.
The network must refund money to the advertisers and loses considerable revenue and prestige.
The demonstrators have been non-violent, but the result of their trespasses has been to seriously impair the rights of others unconnected with their dispute.
It might be alleged that TV has done more than its share to popularize and promote non-violent civil disobedience, so the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of "chickens coming home to roost."
Or maybe the TV network would lose nothing.
Geraldo or Phil would probably pull up another camera and interview the chained protesters.
Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly, yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole.
I am referring to those young men who chose to disobey their country's call to arms during the Vietnam war and fled to Canada or some other sanctuary to avoid combat.
Their cowardly acts of civil disobedience, which they tried to hide under the cloak of outrage at a war they characterized as "immoral," weakened the national fabric and threw additional burdens on those who served honorably in that conflict.
Even more at fault are those leaders in and out of government who urged and supported their defections, thereby giving great help and comfort to the enemy propagandists.
It is amazing that the ensuing mass executions in Vietnam and Cambodia do not weight more heavily on minds so morally fine-tuned.
Worse, it remained to a well-meaning but naive president of the United States to administer the final infamy upon those who fought and died in Vietnam.
Under the guise of "healing the wounds of the nation," President Carter pardoned thousands of draft evaders, thus giving dignity to their allegations of the war's "immorality."
The precedent having been set, who can complain if future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding until it is over?
Finally, I think it important to point out the extraordinarily high visibility of non-violent civil disobedience in these days of intensive media coverage.
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law, and no second invitation will be required.
This brings into question the motives of those who lead civil disobedience demonstrations.
Do they want the spotlight for themselves or for their cause?
Here is a good rule of thumb: If the movement produced the leader, the chance that he is sincere is much greater than if the leader produced the movement.
In either case, ask yourself whether you have become better informed on the issues under protest by watching the act of civil disobedience.
If you have not, it is probable that a thorough airing of the dispute by calm and rational debate would have been the better course.
Mr. Agnew was vice president of the U.S. from 1969 until he resigned in 1973.
As the leading candidate for president of his country in next year's election, Mario Vargas Llosa ought to be in an enviable position.
But his country is Peru, where political visibility, especially for a believer in democracy and free enterprise -- a right winger in Latin American eyes -- makes a man a target for assassination.
For almost any Peruvian these days, to show an interest in public office is a heroic gesture; for Mr. Vargas Llosa especially so, since he already has achieved a high position in the world's eyes as a writer.
Published everywhere to universal acclaim, doted on like a movie star in the Hispanic world from Barcelona to Ushuaia, Mr. Vargas Llosa could live comfortably on his royalties and console his political conscience with the thought that Peru is a hopeless mess not of his making and that he already did his best to reform it with his magnificently cinematic novel about the years of military dictatorship of his youth, "Conversation in the Cathedral."
But, after some hesitation, he is back on the stump and also still writing important novels about Peru.
"The Storyteller" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 246 pages, $17.95), splendidly translated by Helen Lane, first appeared in Spanish in 1987 before the Peruvian economy had reached its present state of virtual collapse.
And in any case the story takes place a bit earlier than that, when the guerrilla war in the highlands had not yet made internal travel a gamble with destiny.
Even still, the very first sentence of this fable that weaves together Peru's most advanced and most primitive cultural strands speaks of "my unfortunate country."
The narrator may be talking about the depredations of the Shining Path Maoists among the Indians of the Andes, or he may be referring to the plunging inti, Peru's rubber currency, or the corrupting effect of the cocaine trade.
But he is swiftly drawn into a tangle of memories about a less newsworthy and more exotic part of Peru: its corner of the Amazon jungle.
This narrator is a foil for Mr. Vargas Llosa, a cosmopolitan writer with one well-tailored leg in journalism.
He is in Florence to shake himself free of Peru and get some writing done, just as Mr. Vargas Llosa has gone to Paris and now goes frequently to London for the same purpose.
But this narrator happens upon some photographs in a gallery, pictures taken in Peruvian Amazonia of the untamed and nomadic Machiguenga tribe.
And they remind him of his own experiences with that unhappy scattered culture and of his friend at Lima's University of San Marcos, Saul Zuratas.
Saul was a high-strung student of ethnography, a Jew marked doubly as an outsider because of a huge wine-dark birthmark on his face, for which people called him Mascarita, Mask Face.
Saul knew about the Machiguengas from his studies, and through him the narrator became interested in this most recalcitrant and un-Westernizable of all the indigenous peoples who had come under the Spanish yoke.
Saul, meanwhile, came to believe that anthropology, even at its most benign, was as insidious a form of cultural imperialism as the superficially more blatant activities of Christian missionaries.
Saul mysteriously disappears.
This is what we know at the end of the opening section of "The Storyteller."
The next voice we hear sounds like this: "There was no evil, there was no wind, there was no rain.
The women bore pure children.
If Tasurinchi wanted to eat, he dipped his hand into the river and brought out a shad flicking its tail . . ."
And this: "Moving, walking.
Keeping on, with or without rain, by land or by water, climbing up the mountain slopes or climbing down the ravines."
The speaker is never identified.
He tells his stories in his majestically simple way, in a "language" all his own.
There are creation myths and cosmologies and hunting stories -- a whole culture is contained within these dreamy narratives.
It is as though Mr. Vargas Llosa had recorded a storytelling session at a Machiguenga campfire.
And this is just the effect he hopes to have on the reader, as he alternates chapters in his "own" voice with chapters somehow "borrowed" from the Machiguenga storyteller.
For most of the book, there is no direct connection between its urban and its Amazonian modes.
But the contrast between them becomes a living thing through the brilliant contrast of narrative styles that Mr. Vargas Llosa creates.
He controls this counterpoint like a novelistic Bach, reaching an audacious extreme in a hilarious chapter in which the "Vargas Llosa" voice relates his adventures as an inept television newsman.
But the joke turns serious when a reportage takes him to Amazonia and he encounters the missionaries who know more than anyone else about the Machiguengas.
By this point, the narrator has become obsessed with finding out about the Machiguenga storytellers, who, he had heard years before, functioned like cultural glue for a tribe split into many small bands in constant motion through the jungle.
The storytellers traveled among the bands, reminding them of their identity.
But why would no Machiguenga the narrator meets during his reportage even admit that there were storytellers?
The narrator eventually deduces the extraordinary answer, which is confirmed in a literally Kafkaesque manner by a storyteller in the next chapter.
I am trying to give away as little as possible, but this is not really a mystery or some kind of jungle thriller.
It will be read for the brilliant clash of styles of narration and the even more brilliant way that they have been tied together into a large metaphor for literature and its function in society.
It was a parent's ultimate nightmare.
As the crippled jet prepared for an emergency landing, Sylvia Tsao wrapped her 23-month-old son, Evan, in blankets and, following cabin-crew orders, placed him on the floor.
She held him down tightly, trying to protect him.
"Suddenly, the world seemed to end," she told investigators later.
Crashing into a cornfield, United Airlines' Flight 232 flipped over, and she lost her grip on her son.
"I saw for an instant my son's body floating and flying" toward the back of the plane, Ms. Tsao recalled.
When the plane stopped moving, she frantically tried to find him.
But Evan died of smoke inhalation.
July's Sioux City crash has fueled an emotionally charged debate.
Safety advocates and members of Congress, calling babies "the neglected population," are stepping up a campaign for the mandatory use of infant safety seats on all flights.
But the Federal Aviation Administration is reluctant to require separate seats for babies because of the added cost for traveling parents.
Some FAA officials note that few infants have been killed in plane crashes, raising the question of whether safety seats really are needed.
A 1981 Harvard Medical School study that scrutinized accidents in the late 1970s concluded that perhaps three babies would have been saved in a five-year period if safety-seat use had been required.
The National Transportation Safety Board will take a close look at the issue during four days of hearings that begin today on the broader issue of what caused the crash that killed 112 people.
"Infants', toddlers' and young children's safety should no longer be ignored as if they don't count," Mrs. Tsao wrote to the board in advocating use of the safety seats.
All 50 states require that small children be strapped into safety seats in cars.
On planes, FAA rules dictate that children two years old and over have their own tickets and be strapped into regular seats, just as adults are.
Babies under two may sit on laps and fly for free.
But it is almost impossible to keep hold of a baby during an air crash, or even in severe turbulence.
During the Sioux City crash, Lori Michaelson of Cincinnati lost her grip on her baby as the plane lurched and tipped over.
Another passenger heard one-year-old Sabrina's cry and pulled her from an overhead luggage compartment.
The FAA encourages the use of safety seats, but in the past many parents have run into problems trying to use them, even when the plane was only half-full or they had bought an extra ticket especially for the baby.
When Vanessa Merton, an associate dean at Pace University School of Law, decided to take her young son to Europe last spring, she called four carriers to ask about their policies on car seats.
"The people acted like I was transporting heroin," she says.
One reservation agent told her -- incorrectly -- that the airline barred the use of the seats on flights.
After the Sioux City crash, Lori Michaelson bought a car seat for her daughter for the flight home to Cincinnati.
But on one leg of the trip, she was ordered by a flight attendant to take Sabrina out of the seat and hold her during takeoff and landing -- the most dangerous parts of any flight.
Airlines say that such mistakes are decreasing in the aftermath of Sioux City, but proponents of the safety devices say they still get complaints from parents.
"People are told one thing on the phone, another at check in, another at the gate, and another on the plane," says Stephanie Tombrello, executive director of the Los Angeles Area Child Passenger Safety Association, which petitioned the FAA in June for mandatory use of child-safety seats.
The Association of Flight Attendants, the main flight attendants' union, is strongly backing that request.
The FAA argues that requiring safety seats for all babies might actually diminish, not enhance, safety.
As part of such a rule, officials say, parents would probably be required to buy an extra ticket for the baby.
The increased cost of flying would inevitably encourage some families to drive rather than fly, they say.
Commercial airlines have the lowest accident rate of all transportation modes -- much lower than cars, for example.
Anthony Broderick, the FAA's acting Executive Director for Regulatory Standards and Compliance, contends that the current rule is the best approach because it allows parents to make their own decision on whether to use a safety seat.
But he admits that the agency is in "a very uncomfortable position."
He says the agency soon will propose that airlines be prohibited from denying the use of safety seats.
(Most airlines don't prohibit their use.)
He says the agency also will seek public comment on whether the seats should be required.
Walter Coleman, Vice President of Operations for the Air Transport Association, the trade group for the major airlines, describes the call for safety seats as "legitimate" and says the group is studying the issue.
But privately some airline officials fear that if parents must buy extra tickets for babies, whole families will stop flying.
Others worry that the FAA might write a rule forcing airlines to pick up part of the tab for increased infant safety.
Generally, airlines say they welcome the use of a government-approved safety seat and will even allow the restraint to take up a regular seat for free if the flight isn't crowded.
(Most car seats made in recent years are certified for use on aircraft and are so marked.)
But space can only be guaranteed if a ticket is purchased.
What the industry really wants is some kind of device that would protect babies without taking up an extra seat.
But no one has come up with anything that is safer in a crash than the current practice of bundling babies up and trying to pin them to the floor.
Parents are advised against holding the infants, for fear that in an accident the babies could be crushed by the adult's weight.
Proponents of safety seats are turning up the heat on the FAA.
Yesterday, Rep. James Lightfoot, an Iowa Republican, sent FAA Administrator James Busey a letter signed by 56 House members urging the agency to require infant safety seats.
If the FAA refuses, Rep. Lightfoot says, he will push legislation to require the change.
It is a peaceful time in this part of western India.
The summer crop is harvested, winter sowing has yet to begin.
Farmers in loose turbans and fancy earrings spend their afternoons laughing and gossiping at the markets.
One could imagine such a lull in the lives of the Arabs before the quadrupling of oil prices.
For just as the Arabs were in the 1960s, the farmers of Sidhpur are on the brink of global power and fame.
The Arabs had merely oil.
These farmers may have a grip on the world's very heart.
Or, at least, its heart disease.
That is because Sidhpur has a near-monopoly on the world's supply of flea seed, also known as flea wort or, in Western parlance, psyllium: a tiny, tasteless, obscure seed that, according to early research, may reduce cholesterol levels in the blood.
Ever since the link to cholesterol was disclosed, Americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals.
If further research proves the seed's benefits, this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad to rival all fads since cod-liver oil.
"This seed's not grown anywhere else in India, or anywhere else in the world," says T.V. Krishnamurthy, a vice president of Procter & Gamble India Ltd., a major psyllium buyer and promoter.
"The proper climatic conditions don't exist in many places in the world."
Arvind Patel, a processor and exporter of the seed, raves: "If psyllium takes the place of oat bran, it will be huge."
Whether psyllium makes Sidhpur's fortune depends on cholesterol-fearing Americans, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and, of course, the outcome of further research.
Only one thing is certain here: Pysllium is likely to remain solely an export item from Sidhpur for a long time.
Local farmers say it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek, a legume.
But they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning, and, perhaps, little need: lean, frugal vegetarians, the farmers are innocents in the clogged, treacherous world of cholesterol.
Psyllium is an annual herb, Plantago ovata, that has been used for centuries by folk doctors here, mainly as a laxative and anti-diarrheal.
As such, the soluble fiber has an almost fanatic following in northern India.
"I can assure you," attests a 25-year-old lawyer in New Delhi, with a meaningfully raised eyebrow, "from personal experience, it works."
A prominent businessman in Bombay gives a similar testimonial: "I have been taking it daily since 1961."
Folk doctors also prescribe it for kidney, bladder and urethra problems, duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids.
Some apply it to gouty joints.
The plant has a hairy stem that produces flowers and diminutive seeds.
It is the seed's colorlessness and size -- 1,000 of them weigh only 1.5 grams, or about as much as two paper clips -- that explain the historical allusions to fleas.
The translucent husk of the seed is removed, sifted and crushed; the seed itself is fed to animals.
Some 90% of the crop, which was worth $26 million last year, is exported.
For decades, psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co.'s Metamucil, the top-selling brand in the U.S., and Ciba-Geigy Corp.'s Fiberall.
But some time ago, researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
Cincinnati-based P&G took an interest; it ordered two studies on psyllium and cholesterol.
One of the studies, done at the University of Minnesota, tested 75 people with raised cholesterol levels.
After 16 weeks, the group that took three daily teaspoons of Metamucil saw a significant dip in their general cholesterol levels, and an even larger reduction in levels of low-density lipoproteins, the so-called bad cholesterol.
In late 1987, P&G asked the FDA for approval to market Metamucil as the first non-prescription, cholesterol-lowering product in the U.S.
In April, the psyllium bandwagon got more crowded.
General Mills Inc., the food giant, launched a breakfast cereal called Benefit, containing psyllium, oat, wheat and beet bran; the words, "reduce cholesterol" were prominently displayed on its package.
In September, Kellogg Co. launched a competing psyllium-fortified cereal called Heartwise.
Suddenly, on television, in advertisements and on their cereal boxes, Americans were inundated with news about the obscure seed.
The flood of claims and counter-claims worried consumers and actually hurt sales of the new cereals.
This month, the Food and Drug Administration expressed concern that Americans might someday, in various forms, ingest too much psyllium.
Currently, there is a lull in the psyllium war.
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe.
It also ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol.
But the agency hasn't yanked psyllium off store shelves.
If the FDA approves the new uses of psyllium, other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products.
"It's going to be a sensational thing," says Mr. Krishnamurthy of P&G in Bombay.
Says psyllium exporter Mr. Patel: "I just got back yesterday from the U.S.
In the newspapers, on the radio and TV, psyllium is everywhere."
But the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers.
They only know of one use for the crop, as a laxative, and with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop, they think of the seed as a marginal crop, something to grow between summer wheat crops.
"Psyllium's not a good crop," complains Sooraji Jath, a 26-year-old farmer from the village of Lakshmipura.
"You get a rain at the wrong time and the crop is ruined."
Even at the Basic Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetics Export Promotion Council, the government agency that promotes the seed, the psyllium boom is distant thunder.
The staff brags about psyllium's hefty contribution to American regularity, without quite grasping the implications of the research on cholesterol.
The council's annual report has psyllium on its last page, lumped with such unglamorous export items as sarsaparilla and "Nux vomica," a plant that induces vomiting.
In one way, the psyllium middlemen -- the buyers and exporters -- are glad to keep news of the boom to themselves.
They want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year.
But there's a catch.
Sidhpur and adjacent districts are the only places in the world where psyllium is grown in large quantities.
This is partly due to the particular demands of the crop.
Psyllium needs sandy soil, dew during the first few weeks, and then total dryness when its seeds are maturing.
Small crops are grown in Pakistan, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium and Brazil, but their quality can't compare to that of Indian psyllium.
Big buyers like Procter & Gamble say there are other spots on the globe, and in India, where the seed could be grown.
"It's not a crop that can't be doubled or tripled," says Mr. Krishnamurthy.
But no one has made a serious effort to transplant the crop.
In Sidhpur, it is almost time to sow this year's crop.
Many farmers, too removed to glean psyllium's new sparkle in the West, have decided to plant mustard, fennel, cumin, fenugreek or castor-oil seeds.
Mr. Jath is thinking of passing up psyllium altogether this year in favor of a crop with a future such as cumin or fennel.
"Maybe I'll plant castor-oil seeds."
His brother, Parkhaji, whose head is swathed in a gorgeous crimson turban, nods vigorous assent.
So when next year's psyllium crop is harvested in March, it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom.
And the world could experience its first psyllium shortage.
Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega may have accomplished over the weekend what his U.S. antagonists have failed to do: revive a constituency for the Contra rebels.
Lawmakers haven't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras, and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday, saying only that "if there's an all-out military offensive, that's going to change the equation 180 degrees."
But Mr. Ortega's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him, effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters.
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) said yesterday on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press" that Mr. Ortega's threat was "a very unwise move, particularly the timing of it."
The threat came during a two-day celebration in Costa Rica to highlight Central America's progress toward democracy in the region, attended by President Bush, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and 14 other Western Hemisphere leaders.
Mr. Bush returned to Washington Saturday night.
Mr. Ortega announced on Friday that he would end the cease-fire this week in response to the periodic Contra assaults against his army.
Saturday, he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire if the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras.
He asked that the remaining U.S. humanitarian aid be diverted to disarming and demobilizing the rebels.
Not only did Mr. Ortega's comments come in the midst of what was intended as a showcase for the region, it came as Nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned February elections.
Outside observers are gathering in Nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates.
And important U.S. lawmakers must decide at the end of November if the Contras are to receive the rest of the $49 million in so-called humanitarian assistance under a bipartisan agreement reached with the Bush administration in March.
The humanitarian assistance, which pays for supplies such as food and clothing for the rebels amassed along the Nicaraguan border with Honduras, replaced the military aid cut off by Congress in February 1988.
While few lawmakers anticipated that the humanitarian aid would be cut off next month, Mr. Ortega's threat practically guarantees that the humanitarian aid will be continued.
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.) said yesterday on "Meet the Press": "I would hope after his {Mr. Ortega's} act yesterday or the day before, we'd have unanimous support for quick action on remaining humanitarian aid."
Sen. Dole also said he hoped for unanimous support for a resolution he plans to offer tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan leader.
While renewing military aid had been considered out of the question, rejected by Congress and de-emphasized by the Bush administration, Mr. Ortega's statement provides Contra supporters with the opportunity to press the administration on the issue.
"The administration should now state that if the February election is voided by the Sandinistas . . . they should call for military aid," said former Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams.
"In these circumstances, I think they'd win."
Sen. Mitchell said that congressional Democrats intend to honor the March agreement to give non-lethal support to the Contras through the February elections, although he added that the agreement requires that the Contras not initiate any military action.
Mr. Ortega's threat to breach the cease-fire comes as U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves.
Secretary of State James Baker, who accompanied President Bush to Costa Rica, told reporters Friday: "I have no reason to deny reports that some Contras ambushed some Sandinista soldiers."
Mr. Baker's assistant for inter-American affairs, Bernard Aronson, while maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire, acknowledged: "It's never very clear who starts what."
He added that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units when it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire.
In addition to undermining arguments in favor of ending Contra aid, Mr. Ortega's remarks also played to the suspicions of some U.S. officials and conservatives outside the government that he is searching for ways to manipulate or void the February elections.
Administration officials traveling with President Bush in Costa Rica interpreted Mr. Ortega's wavering as a sign that he isn't responding to the military attacks so much as he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections.
Mr. Abrams said that Mr. Ortega is seeking to demobilize the Contras prior to the elections to remove any pressure to hold fair elections.
"My sense is what they have in mind is an excuse for clamping down on campaigning" by creating an atmosphere of a military emergency, he said.
A frozen mountaintop in Tibet may offer an important clue about whether the Earth is warming perilously.
Researchers at Ohio State University and Lanzhou Institute of Glaciology and Geocryology in China have analyzed samples of glacial ice in Tibet and say temperatures there have been significantly higher on average over the past half-century than in any similar period in the past 10,000 years.
The ice samples are an important piece of evidence supporting theories that the Earth has warmed considerably in recent times, largely because of pollutants in the air, and will warm far more in the century ahead.
A substantial warming would melt some of the Earth's polar ice caps, raising the level of the oceans and causing widespread flooding of heavily populated coastal areas.
"If you can use data to reconstruct what happened in the past, you have much more confidence in predictions for the future," said Lonnie Thompson, a research scientist at Ohio State who dug for and analyzed the ice samples.
To compare temperatures over the past 10,000 years, researchers analyzed the changes in concentrations of two forms of oxygen.
These measurements can indicate temperature changes, researchers said, because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change.
Analysis of ice from the Dunde ice cap, a glacial plateau in Tibet 17,000 feet above sea level, show that average temperatures were higher in 1937-87 than in any other 50-year period since before the last Ice Age, Mr. Thompson said.
Some climate models project that interior regions of Asia would be among the first to heat up in a global warming because they are far from oceans, which moderate temperature changes.
But the ice-core samples aren't definitive proof that the so-called greenhouse effect will lead to further substantial global heating, Mr. Thompson acknowledged.
According to greenhouse theories, increased carbon dioxide emissions, largely caused by burning of fossil fuels, will cause the Earth to warm up because carbon dioxide prevents heat from escaping into space.
Skeptics say that if that's the case, temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century, reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide.
Instead, the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s, decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s, then higher temperatures again through last year.
Other temperature data show similar unexplained swings.
"Climate varies drastically due to natural causes," said Mr. Thompson.
But he said ice samples from Peru, Greenland and Antarctica all show substantial signs of warming.
An enormous turtle has succeeded where the government has failed: He has made speaking Filipino respectable.
The 6 1/2-foot-tall turtle, Pong Pagong, is a character who stars in the children's television show "Batibot."
He speaks only in Filipino.
"Batibot," which started in 1983 as a hybrid of the U.S. program "Sesame Street," has developed into a distinctly Philippine effort.
Radio programs and books have followed the daily television show.
In the process, "Batibot," an archaic Filipino word meaning "strong" or "enduring," has become a powerful advocate of the use of the Filipino language.
"It impresses on ordinary, young Filipinos that there's nothing to feel inferior about in using their own language," says Randy David, a sociologist and host of a popular television talk show.
"When we started the program six years ago, the use of Filipino was deemed unwise by the predominantly middle class," says Lydia Brown, the program's creator.
Now, she says, "it's no longer an issue."
The success of "Batibot" stands in marked contrast to many academic and government attempts to promote Filipino as a national language.
Filipino -- once known as Pilipino -- is predominantly Tagalog, the Malay-based language spoken in a part of the country's principal island of Luzon.
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country's elite, who generally prefer English.
But while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English, they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino, say advocates of the native language.
"For the middle and upper-middle class {Filipino} is declasse," says Bien Lumbera, a Philippine-studies professor at Quezon City's University of the Philippines.
There's also resentment.
Other opponents of Filipino come from non-Tagalog regions.
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight, although recent surveys indicate that the majority of the country's population understands Filipino more than any other language.
(There are seven major languages and more than 70 dialects in the country.)
What tongue to speak is an emotional mine field in the Philippines.
It is entrenched in the country's colonial bonds to the U.S., in Philippine class structure, in the regional loyalties of its people and in its island geography.
As they did when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S., teachers for the most part teach in English, even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children.
As a result, they often speak one language at home, another at school.
Mrs. Brown calls the modern-day cultural ambivalence to Filipino a "language schizophrenia."
The issue has been simmering for years.
It doesn't take much to provoke an intense debate.
When President Corazon Aquino, whose command of Filipino is spotty, announced last year that the language would be used in official communications, there was an uproar from many legislators, who continue to conduct debates mostly in English.
But many proponents of Filipino see resistance to the language finally crumbling.
They believe the media, including "Batibot," have played a crucial role.
According to chief scriptwriter Rene Villanueva, "Batibot" doesn't set out to advance the cause of Filipino.
"It's not as if we're teaching language per se," he says, "We're just using it."
These days, "Batibot" is produced in a converted lumberyard on a shoestring budget of $3,000 a one-hour segment.
It is shown weekdays on two of the country's five networks.
With an audience totaling more than 400,000, "Batibot" consistently ranks in the country's top-four most-watched daytime programs.
But advertising revenue is inadequate.
Periodically, there are threats that the program will fold.
"Batibot" lacks the polish of "Sesame Street."
Sound stages echo.
Acting sometimes falls flat.
There are only two large puppets in the program: Pong Pagong and a monkey named Kiko Matsing.
But the production is the equal of any local program.
And the show's creativity makes up for any technological deficiencies.
The program isn't afraid to tackle controversial topics such as nuclear weapons and the environment.
Not that the language war is won, even on "Batibot."
During one recent episode, all the advertisements were in English.
The Canadian government, with a view to becoming more politically active in Latin America, is expected to announce tomorrow its application to join the Organization of American States, a Washington-based regional agency.
The expected Canadian move has been welcomed by the Bush administration even though Canada has opposed such U.S. actions as the trade embargo against Cuba, the invasion of Grenada and the military support for Nicaragua's Contra guerrillas.
Latin American countries have long urged Canada to join the OAS in the hopes that it would be a counterweight to the U.S., which for many years tended to dominate the 32-nation organization.
Even though the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership, it hasn't been a Washington priority.
"The fact that we might not side with the Americans may be a reason why Canada's membership in the OAS hasn't been, over the years, an item high on the U.S. agenda," said Allan Gotlieb, former Canadian ambassador to the U.S.
The Canadian application is expected to be announced in San Jose, Costa Rica, by Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, who is attending a centenary celebration of Costa Rican democracy.
"Canada has a larger and more beneficial role to play in the hemisphere," Mr. Mulroney said recently.
Some Canadian political commentators have opposed Canada's joining what they see as a U.S.-dominated organization.
"Canada could do plenty of things to get serious about Latin America without running the risk of getting caught in the cross fire" between the U.S. and Latin American members of the OAS, said Jeffrey Simpson, a columnist in Toronto's Globe & Mail newspaper.
Canada, at times, could be an awkward OAS partner for the U.S. if its United Nations voting record is an indication.
In U.N. General Assembly votes last year, Canada voted the same as the U.S. only 63% of the time.
France voted the same as the U.S. 76% of the time, West Germany 79% and Britain 83%.
Larry Birns, director of the Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a liberal research group, said that Latin American countries would be "profoundly disappointed" if Canada were to follow the U.S. lead in the OAS.
"Latin Americans see Canada as a non-interventionist power that respects their sovereignty," he said.
The OAS, which tries to promote peace and economic development within the Americas, is attempting to find a settlement of the current Panama political crisis.
Cuba has been suspended from OAS membership, but the organization's members are discussing Cuba's reinstatement.
Early this century, diamond mining in the magnificent dunes where the Namib Desert meets the Atlantic Ocean was a day at the beach.
Men would crawl in the sand looking for shiny stones.
It was as easy as collecting sea shells at Malibu.
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes, searching for that unusual glint.
But only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's diamond kingpins, do their work.
Last year, 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats, which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat, or one-fifth gram.
Oh yes, the Atlantic was also pushed back 300 yards.
"If there's diamonds out there, we'll get to them," says Les Johns, De Beers's engineering manager.
Here, wedged between shifting dunes and pounding waves at the world's most inhospitable diamond dig, lies the earth's most precious jewel box.
Thanks to centuries of polishing by Mother Nature -- first in the gentle current of the Orange River that carried the stones from South Africa's interior, then in the cold surf of the ocean, and finally in the coarse sands of the desert -- 98% of the diamonds uncovered are of gem quality.
While other mines might yield more carats, a higher percentage of them go to industrial use.
Since this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault, it has been turned into one.
Months after railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908, the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area, a designation normally reserved for military operations.
When the Germans lost World War I, they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer, patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers.
Today, no one gets in or out of the restricted area without De Beers's stingy approval.
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa.
Ghost towns dot the Namib dunes, proving diamonds aren't forever.
Oranjemund, the mine headquarters, is a lonely corporate oasis of 9,000 residents.
Jackals roam the streets at night, and gemsbok, hardy antelope with long straight horns, wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers.
On most days, the desert's heat and the cool of the ocean combine to create a mist like a damp rag.
The wind, stinging with sand, never seems to stop.
Still, miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming.
And Oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds.
There are six video rental shops, three restaurants, one cinema and 34 sports and recreation clubs for everything from cricket to lawn bowling.
The pride of Oranjemund is the 18-hole golf course -- with the largest sand trap in the world.
Last year, when the rising Orange River threatened to swamp the course, the same engineers who are pushing back the Atlantic rushed to build a wall to hold back the flood.
"Nothing is too good for our golf course," says Tony George, a mining engineer.
Despite fears the mine may be partially nationalized by the new Namibian government following next month's elections freeing the country from South African control, De Beers engineers are working to extend the mine's productive life for another 25 years, from the current estimate of 10.
Huge machines that look as though they came from the Star Wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes.
Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters; a whirring ferris wheel-like excavator, with buckets instead of seats, chews through layers of compacted sand; tracks and conveyor belts, shuttling sand to the screening plants, criss-cross the beach.
Then there is the artificial sea wall, 600 yards long and 60 yards thick, jutting into the ocean.
Made of sand, it receives around-the-clock maintenance against the battering waves.
When the mining in front of the wall is complete, it is moved northward.
A companion jetty that helps hold back the sea looks like a rusting junkyard.
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier, but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood.
Then someone decided to try broken-down earthmoving equipment that, inexplicably, held against the waves.
"The Caterpillar people aren't too happy when they see their equipment used like that," shrugs Mr. George.
"They figure it's not a very good advert."
Despite all these innovations, most of the diamonds are still found in the sand swept away by the men wielding shovels and brushes -- the ignominiously named "bedrock sweepers" who toil in the wake of the excavators.
Laboring in blue and gray overalls, they are supposed to concentrate on cleaning out crevices, and not strain their eyes looking for diamonds.
But should they spy one, the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value.
For these workers at the bottom of the mine's pay scale, this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15 years in jail.
Still, employees do occasionally try to smuggle out a gem or two.
One man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie.
Another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe.
A food caterer stashed stones in the false bottom of a milk pail.
None made it past the body searches and X-rays of mine security.
The Food and Drug Administration banned all imports of mushrooms from China in response to a rash of food-poisoning outbreaks linked to canned Chinese mushrooms.
"The agency has concluded that contamination may be widespread throughout the mushroom-processing industry in China," an FDA spokesman said yesterday.
The agency won't allow mushrooms that were canned or packed in brine at any Chinese plant to enter the U.S. until "satisfactory sanitation-control measures are implemented in China to prevent" bacterial contamination.
On May 19, the FDA began detaining Chinese mushrooms in 68-ounce cans after more than 100 people in Mississippi, New York and Pennsylvania became ill from eating tainted mushrooms.
In subsequent tests, the agency found smaller-size cans from several Chinese plants to be similarly contaminated.
The outbreaks were traced to Staphylococcus aureus, a type of bacteria that produces a toxin capable of surviving the high temperatures used in canning vegetables.
A recall of the mushrooms blamed for the food poisoning began in early March.
In 1987, China exported 65 million pounds of mushrooms, valued at $47 million, to the U.S.
The shipments went mostly to food-service distributors that supply pizzerias and restaurants.
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy here said that the Beijing government has taken "many effective measures" to stop the mushroom contamination and is further investigating the underlying causes.
He predicted the problem will be solved "very soon."
Outside the white-walled headquarters of the so-called Society of Orange Workers, all seems normal in South Africa's abnormal society.
A pickup truck driven by a white farmer rumbles past with a load of black workers bouncing in the back.
Over at Conradies, the general store, a black stock boy scurries to help an elderly white woman with her packages.
Down the street, a car pulls into the Shell station and is surrounded by black attendants.
But inside the white walls of the Orange Workers' office -- just about the largest building in town, save for the Dutch Reformed Church and the school -- South Africa's neat racial order is awry.
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes.
White women serve tea and coffee, and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards.
White children empty the wastepaper baskets and squeegee the windows.
There isn't a black worker in sight.
Not in the kitchen, or the storeroom or the book shop.
"If we want to have our own nation, then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves," says Hendrik Verwoerd Jr., son of the former prime minister and the leader of the Orange Workers, founded in 1980.
They do indeed want their own nation.
The pillars of apartheid may be trembling in the rest of South Africa, with Johannesburg opening its public facilities to all races, blacks storming the all-white beaches of the Cape and the government releasing seven leaders of the banned African National Congress.
But here in Morgenzon, a sleepy town amid the corn fields of the eastern Transvaal, the Orange Workers are holding the pillars steady.
The Orange Workers -- who take their name from William of Orange of the Netherlands, a hero of the Dutch-descended Afrikaners -- believe that the solution to South Africa's racial problems isn't the abolition of apartheid, it's the perfection of apartheid -- complete and total separation of the races.
Here, then, is where the Orange Workers have come to make apartheid's last stand.
Their idea is to create a city, first, and then an entire nation -- without blacks.
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa.
And the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe.
But their ideal of an Afrikaner homeland, an all-white reserve to be carved out of present-day South Africa, is a mainstream desire of the right-wing, which embraces about one-third of the country's five million whites.
Afrikaner philosophers and theologians have long ruminated on the need for a white homeland.
The Orange Workers are just putting this preaching into practice.
Thus, farmer Johan Fischer, his T-shirt and jeans covered in grease, crawls around under his planter, tightening bolts and fixing dents.
On almost every other farm in South Africa, black workers do the repairs.
But not here.
Mr. Fischer plows his own fields, sows his own corn and sunflowers, and feeds his own sheep.
Over at the fiberglass factory, four white workers assemble water tanks on their own, and in their spare time they build townhouses across the road.
On Main Street, Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop, then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family.
Down by the stream, a group of Orange Workers puts the finishing touches on a golf course.
If whites want to play there by themselves, says consulting engineer Willem van Heerden, whites should also build it by themselves.
"If we want to survive as a people," he says, "we have to change our way of life.
The Afrikaner must end his reliance on others."
In their quest to perfect apartheid, the Orange Workers have discovered a truth that most of privileged white South Africa tries mightily to deny: The master can't become dependent on the slave and expect to remain master forever.
"If apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it, but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration, then these are two contradictions that can't go on forever," says Mr. Verwoerd.
He is sitting in his living room, beneath a huge portrait of his late father, Hendrik F. Verwoerd, apartheid's architect and South African prime minister from 1958 to 1966.
Somewhere, the son sighs, things went terribly wrong with apartheid; today, whites even rely on blacks to police their separation.
"People took separate development as an opportunity to use black labor without ever getting rid of it.
But my father meant it to mean real separation," says the son.
The Orange Workers speak sincerely.
"We agree with world opinion that the status quo in South Africa is morally wrong," says Pieter Bruwer, the Orange Workers' chief scribe and pamphleteer.
"We must either integrate honestly or segregate honestly."
Morgenzon has long been a special domain of Afrikanerdom.
According to Mr. Verwoerd, the early Afrikaner pioneers were the first people to settle in the eastern Transvaal, even before the blacks.
Then, when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908, the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town; blacks could work there, but they had to leave at night.
Today, Morgenzon is a town of 800 whites and two paved roads.
Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks, and many houses and storefronts are empty.
There are few factories and no mines.
It was an ideal place for the Orange Workers to start their new nation, unencumbered by the demographics that have undermined apartheid elsewhere in South Africa.
So far, about 150 Orange Workers have moved here, spending nearly $1 million buying up property over the past three years.
Still, complete and total segregation remains elusive.
Just beyond the city limits is a shantytown of 2,000 blacks who are employed throughout the area.
Despite the Orange Workers' intention to put them all out of work, they are in no hurry to leave.
A young man called July (that's when he was born), who works at the railroad station just up the street from the Orange Workers office, points at the white walled building and says matter-of-factly, "We're not allowed in there, that's all I know."
The 650-or-so local whites who aren't Orange Workers are more troubled.
Try as they might, they just can't conceive of life without black workers.
"Impossible, impossible," say the Conradies, an elderly couple who have run the general store for decades.
"We can't do without their help," says Mrs. Conradie.
"Oh no.
We need them and I thank God for them."
Over at the Shell station, owner Rudi van Dyk, who doubles as Morgenzon's mayor, worries that the Orange Workers have made his town the laughingstock of the nation.
"What they want us to do just isn't practical," he says, noting that he employs 16 blacks.
"I couldn't afford to hire 16 whites.
The only Afrikaners who would be willing to work for this salary wouldn't know how to handle money."
Back at the Verwoerd house, Hendrik Sr. peers down over the shoulder of Hendrik Jr.
The son believes that when the Afrikaners finally realize there is no turning back the integration of South African society and politics, Morgenzon will boom.
"We urge our people not to wait until they have to fight for their own nation," says Mr. Verwoerd.
"By populating a place now, we make ourselves a power any new government will have to take into account."
Curiously, he compares the Orange Workers to the ANC, which his father outlawed in 1960.
"The ANC won't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations," says Mr. Verwoerd.
"Likewise, no government will stop this idea of the Afrikaners."
He apologizes for sounding pushy.
"Look," he says, "If the rest of South Africa wants to have an integrated melting pot, that's their choice.
We'll leave them alone.
We just want to have our own cup of tea."
And they will even serve it themselves.
When Maj. Moises Giroldi, the leader of the abortive coup in Panama, was buried, his body bore several gunshot wounds, a cracked skull and broken legs and ribs.
They were the signature of his adversary, Panamanian leader Manuel Antonio Noriega.
The rebel officer's slow and painful death, at the headquarters of Panama's Battalion-2000 squad, was personally supervised by Gen. Noriega, says a U.S. official with access to intelligence reports.
Leaping into rages, sinking into bouts of drunkenness and mistrust, Mr. Noriega has put to death some 70 of his troops involved in the coup, according to U.S. officials monitoring crematoriums and funeral parlors in Panama City.
He is now changing the place he sleeps every night, sometimes more than once a night.
His meals are most often prepared by women he trusts -- his full-time mistress, Vicky Amado, and her mother, Norma.
And he is collecting the names of those who telephoned the coup-makers to congratulate them during their brief time in control of his headquarters.
More enemies to be dealt with.
In the two weeks since the rebellion, which the U.S. hesitantly backed, Mr. Noriega has been at his most brutal-and efficient-in maintaining power.
Yet, while the failed coup is a major U.S. foreign policy embarrassment, it is merely the latest chapter in a byzantine relationship between Mr. Noriega and Washington that stretches back three decades.
America's war on the dictator over the past two years, following his indictment on drug charges in February 1988, is the legacy of that relationship.
Before American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega, it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama's long history of conspirators and pirates.
For most of the past 30 years, the marriage was one of convenience.
In 1960, for example, when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute, according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period.
The woman had nearly died.
But U.S. intelligence, rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy, merely filed the report away.
Mr. Noriega's tips on emerging leftists at his school were deemed more important to U.S. interests.
From that point on, the U.S. would make a practice of overlooking the Panamanian's misadventures.
The U.S. has befriended and later turned against many dictators, but none quite so resourceful.
The 55-year-old Mr. Noriega isn't as smooth as the shah of Iran, as well-born as Nicaragua's Anastasio Somoza, as imperial as Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or as bloody as Haiti's Baby Doc Duvalier.
Yet he has proved more resilient than any of them.
And out of necessity: the U.S. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power, but a single error on his part could cost him his life.
"The U.S. underestimated Noriega all along," says Ambler Moss, a former Ambassador to Panama.
"He has mastered the art of survival."
In keeping with America's long history of propping up Mr. Noriega, recent U.S. actions have extended rather than shortened his survival.
Mr. Noriega might have fallen of his own weight in 1988 because of Panama's dire economic situation, says Mr. Moss, but increasing external pressure has only given him additional excuses for repression, and a scapegoat for his own mismanagement.
"If the U.S. had sat back and done nothing, he might not have made it through 1988," Mr. Moss contends.
Perhaps most important, Mr. Noriega's allies have intervened to encourage -- in some cases, to demand -- that the dictator maintain his grip of the throne.
One Colombian drug boss, upon hearing in 1987 that Gen. Noriega was negotiating with the U.S. to abandon his command for a comfortable exile, sent him a hand-sized mahogany coffin engraved with his name.
"He is cornered," says the Rev. Fernando Guardia, who has led Catholic Church opposition against Noriega.
"The Americans have left him without a way out.
It is easy to fight when you don't have any other option."
His chief advantage in the fight: his intimate knowledge of American ways and weaknesses.
Mr. Noriega often tells friends that patience is the best weapon against the gringos, who have a short attention span and little stomach for lasting confrontation.
The U.S. discovered the young Tony Noriega in late 1959, when he was in his second year at the Chorrillos Military Academy in Lima, according to former U.S. intelligence officials.
The contact occurred through Mr. Noriega's half-brother, a Panamanian diplomat based in Peru named Luis Carlos Noriega Hurtado.
Luis Carlos, knowing that helping the Americans could advance the career of any Panamanian officer, relayed Tony's reports on the leftist tendencies he observed among his fellow students and, more important, among his officers and instructors.
A spy was born.
It was a heady experience for the pockmarked and slightly built Mr. Noriega, who was known to his friends as Cara la Pina -- pineapple face.
Born the illegitimate son of his father's maid, he was raised on the mean streets of the central market district of Panama City.
Tony was four years older than most of his fellow cadets, and gained admission to the academy because his brother had falsified his birth certificate.
He considered himself intellectually superior to his Peruvian peers, many of whom were wayward sons sent by their well-off families to the highly disciplined, French-modeled academy as a sort of reform school.
In his peaked military cap and neatly pressed, French-made uniform, Noriega felt more respected and powerful than ever in his underprivileged life, friends from the period say.
"He had an elegant uniform with gold buttons in a country where there was a cult of militarism, where officers were the elite with special privileges," recalls Darien Ayala, a fellow student in Peru and a lifelong friend.
Mr. Noriega's relationship to American intelligence agencies became contractual in either 1966 or 1967, intelligence officials say.
His commanding officer at the Chiriqui Province garrison, Major Omar Torrijos, gave him an intriguing assignment: Mr. Noriega would organize the province's first intelligence service.
The spy network would serve two clients: the Panamanian government, by monitoring political opponents in the region, and the U.S., by tracking the growing Communist influence in the unions organized at United Fruit Co.'s banana plantations in Bocas del Toros and Puerto Armuelles.
United Fruit was one of the two largest contributors to Panama's national income.
Satisfying its interests was a priority for any Panamanian leader.
Mr. Noriega's initial retainer was only $50 to $100 a month, plus occasional gifts of liquor or groceries from the American PX, a former intelligence official says.
It was modest pay by American standards, but a healthy boost to his small military salary, which fellow officers remember as having been $300 to $400 monthly.
"He did it very well," recalls Boris Martinez, a former Panamanian colonel who managed Mr. Noriega and his operation.
"He started building the files that helped him gain power."
A National Guard job assumed by Capt. Noriega in 1964 -- as chief of the transit police in David City, capital of the Chiriqui Province -- was tailor-made for an aspiring super-spy.
By pressuring taxi and bus drivers who needed licenses, he gained a ready cache of information.
He knew which local luminaries had been caught driving drunk, which had been found with their mistresses.
This proved particularly valuable to the Panamanian government in 1967, when union leaders were planning a May Day march that the government feared could turn violent.
Mr. Noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy.
So he splashed the information on handbills that he distributed throughout the banana-exporting city of Puerto Armuelles, which was ruled by United Fruit Co.
The campaign so divided union leaders that the government found them far easier to control.
"It was like a play on Broadway," recalls Mr. Martinez.
"Noriega managed the whole thing.
He was superb.
Noriega was an expert at bribing and blackmailing people."
During his years in Chiriqui, however, Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious.
Rodrigo Miranda, a local lawyer and human-rights monitor, recalls an intoxicated Noriega visiting prisoners in their cells at the 5th Zone Garrison headquarters in David, where he had his offices.
Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked, laughing at them and then retreating to his office.
"People started wondering if something was wrong with him," Mr. Miranda recalls.
But through this period, so far as the U.S. military was concerned, Mr. Noriega was a model recruit.
He signed up for intelligence and counter-intelligence training under American officers at Fort Gulick in Panama in July 1967, according to a copy of a 1983 resume with details Mr. Noriega has since classified as secret.
He flew to Fort Bragg, N.C., in September of that year for a course in psychological operations, returning to the School of the Americas in Panama for a two-month course called "military intelligence for officers."
Some American officers interpreted his eagerness and studiousness as a sign of loyalty, but they did so falsely.
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama's so-called G-2 in 1970 after providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier.
He became Gen. Torrijos's inseparable shadow, and the holder of all Panama's secrets.
Mr. Noriega, by now a lieutenant colonel, expanded his contacts to include the Cubans -- not to mention the Israelis, the Taiwanese and any other intelligence service that came knocking.
When U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega's moonlighting, intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans.
"Early on in the State Department, we took to calling him the rent-a-colonel, in tribute to his ability to simultaneously milk the antagonistic intelligence services of Cuba and the United States," recalls Francis J. McNeil, who, as deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, first ran across reports about Mr. Noriega in 1977.
"Some of us wondered how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information when he was just as close to the Cubans."
Even at this early stage, drugs caused additional concerns.
During the Nixon administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration became dismayed at the extent of the G-2's connections to arrested drug traffickers.
One DEA agent drew up a list of five options for dealing with Col. Noriega, one of which was assassination.
The head of the DEA at the time, John Ingersoll, scotched the assassination plan.
But he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials, including Mr. Noriega.
Mr. Ingersoll later recalled that Gen. Torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the U.S.
"Everybody was afraid of him," Mr. Ingersoll says.
Mr. Noriega became an even greater threat in 1976, when U.S. intelligence services discovered that he had been buying recordings of electronically monitored conversations from three sergeants working for the U.S. Army's 470th Military Intelligence Group.
The tapes included wiretaps of Gen. Torrijos's own phone, according to American intelligence officials.
"We caught him with his hands on our cookie jar," says former CIA Director Stansfield Turner.
For the first time, the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll -- and the deliberations were intense, Mr. Turner says.
"In the world of intelligence, if you want to get information, you get it from seedy characters.
The question is how much you get tied in with seedy characters so they can extort you."
Intelligence officials to this day worry whether Mr. Noriega sold sensitive information on the recordings to the Cubans or others.
Mr. Turner was troubled enough to cancel the U.S. contract with the rent-a-colonel at the beginning of the Carter administration.
The U.S. soon found new cause for concern: gun-running.
Prosecutors in Southern Florida indicted five Panamanians on charges of illegally running arms to Sandinista rebels trying to overthrow the Nicaraguan government of Mr. Somoza.
They included one of Mr. Noriega's closest friends and business partners, Carlos Wittgreen.
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself.
At the time, though, in 1979, the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy.
Mr. Noriega made plans to fly to Washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the Pentagon.
Dade County and federal authorities, learning that he intended to fly through Miami, made plans to arrest him on the gun-running charges as soon as he hit U.S. soil.
It was a Friday in June.
The Pentagon foiled the plan.
According to military officers at the time, word was passed to Mr. Noriega by his American hosts that the police would be waiting.
On Monday, U.S. officials received a routine, unclassified message from the military group commander in Panama.
"Due to health reasons, Lt. Col. Noriega has elected to postpone his visit to Washington," it read.
Prosecutors in Miami received yet another setback.
Their original indictment against Mr. Wittgreen, the friend of Mr. Noriega, and the other four was dismissed on a technicality.
But now, along with re-indicting Mr. Noriega's pal, they intended to charge Mr. Noriega himself, on allegations that he was involved in the illegal trading of some $2 million in arms.
In January 1980, Jerome Sanford, as assistant U.S. attorney, was summoned to a meeting with a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent assigned to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Miami.
Panamanian dictator Torrijos, he was told, had granted the shah of Iran asylum in Panama as a favor to Washington.
Mr. Sanford was told Mr. Noriega's friend, Mr. Wittgreen, would be handling the shah's security.
It wouldn't be a good idea to indict him -- much less Mr. Noriega, the prosecutor was told.
After prodding from Mr. Sanford, U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed.
"Unfortunately," Mr. Eskenazi wrote in a letter, "those of us in law enforcement in Miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the United States but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control."
The letter, along with a detailed prosecution memo, sat on the desks of Justice officials for months before the case died a quiet death.
"I think if we had been allowed to go ahead then we wouldn't have the problems we have now," Mr. Sanford says.
"If he had been found guilty, we could have stopped him."
In August 1983, Mr. Noriega took over as General and de-facto dictator of Panama, having maneuvered his way to the top only two years after the mysterious death in a plane crash of his old boss Omar Torrijos.
Soon, the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses.
The Reagan administration also put Mr. Noriega's G-2 back on the U.S. payroll.
Payments averaged nearly $200,000 a year from the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency and the CIA.
Although working for U.S. intelligence, Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively.
During the Reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the Cubans and the Sandinistas.
He allegedly entered into Panama's first formal business arrangement with Colombian drug bosses, according to Floyd Carlton, a pilot who once worked for Mr. Noriega and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges.
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House wouldn't act against him, recalls his close ally Jose Blandon, because he had an insurance policy: his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua.
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama.
Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua.
And on at least one occasion, in the spring of 1985, he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua.
Although his help for the Contra cause was limited, it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration, says Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who then served on the Senate Intelligence Committee.
"Noriega played U.S. intelligence agencies and the U.S. government like a violin," he says.
An incident in 1984 suggested one additional means by which Mr. Noriega might have maintained such influence with Washington -- by compromising U.S. officials.
Curtin Windsor, then the ambassador to Costa Rica, recalls being invited to Panama by Mr. Noriega's brother Luis Carlos for a weekend of deep sea fishing and "quiet, serious conversation" on the Aswara Peninsula.
Mr. Windsor notified Everett E. Briggs, the U.S. ambassador to Panama, of the invitation.
"Briggs screamed," Mr. Windsor recalls.
He says Mr. Briggs told him he was being set up for a "honey trap," in which Mr. Noriega would try to involve him in an orgy and then record the event "with sound and video."
Mr. Briggs, on vacation after resigning his position at the National Security Council, couldn't be reached for comment.
As Mr. Noriega's political troubles grew, so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.
For instance, he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party.
But just one month later, he also contributed $100,000 to a Contra leader, according to documents released for Oliver North's criminal trial in Washington, D.C.
Yet, his political setbacks mounted.
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora, his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges.
He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta, a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S., after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder.
And, all the while, Panama's debt problems continued to grow.
Mr. Noriega was growing desperate.
In late 1986, he made an offer he thought the U.S. couldn't refuse.
As recounted in a stipulation that summarized government documents released for the North trial, Mr. Noriega offered to assassinate the Sandinista leadership in exchange "for a promise to help clean up Noriega's image and a commitment to lift the {U.S.} ban on military sales to the Panamanian Defense Forces."
"North," the document went on, referring to Oliver North, "has told Noriega's representative that U.S. law forbade such actions.
The representative responded that Noriega had numerous assets in place in Nicaragua and could accomplish many essential things, just as Noriega had helped {the U.S.} the previous year in blowing up a Sandinista arsenal."
Col. North conveyed the request to his superiors and to Assistant Secretary of State Elliot Abrams, who relayed it to Secretary of State George Shultz.
Mr. Noriega's proposal was turned down.
And Mr. Shultz curtly told Mr. Abrams that the general should be told that only he could repair his tarnished image.
The end of the marriage was at hand.
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega's insurance policy.
The death of CIA Director William Casey and resignation of Oliver North allowed anti-Noriega political forces to gain influence.
Public protests against him were triggered in June 1987 due to charges by Diaz Herrera, his former chief of staff, that Mr. Noriega had stolen the 1984 election and had ordered the killing of Messrs. Spadafora and Torrijos.
Few American officials were willing any longer to defend him.
Lawyers in Miami -- this time working virtually without impediment -- prepared to have him indicted on drug charges in February 1988.
During negotiations with American officials in May 1988 over proposals to drop the U.S. indictments in exchange for his resignation, Mr. Noriega often asked almost plaintively how the Americans, whom he had helped for so many years, could turn against him.
Now, neither side -- the U.S. nor Mr. Noriega -- has an easy out.
President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice.
Mr. Noriega believes he hasn't any alternative but to continue clutching to power.
It is a knock-out battle -- perhaps to the death.
In the end, is Mr. Noriega the political equivalent of Frankenstein's monster, created by a well-intentioned but misguided foreign power?
Not quite, Sen. Leahy contends.
"For short-term gains, people were willing to put up with him.
That allowed him to get stronger and stronger," he says.
"I don't think we created him as much as we fed him, nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong."
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants; their herds are thriving.
But the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better.
At this week's U.N. conference in Lausanne, they imposed a global ivory ban that seeks to overturn local policies.
A Zimbabwean delegate argued that the ban would "guarantee the extinction of the elephant."
Legitimate ranchers, who have an interest in preserving the herds, would go out of business.
Poachers would control the underground trade.
Many delegates were willing to craft a compromise, but U.S. delegate Constance Harriman and others thundered that down.
The Greens from the First World wanted a morality play, not a negotiation.
Fortunately, the nations of southern Africa haven't totally surrendered their sovereignty.
Five countries announced they would not honor what one Zimbabwean delegate wryly called the "made in Switzerland" solution.
In fact, they seemed a mite resentful.
The director of Zimbabwe's Wildlife Department described American conservationists as "fat little puppies from urban environments who don't know a thing about Africa."
That's not fair; they're not all fat.
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev wants to bring the nation's reformist press back into line, blaming it for contributing to the many problems he faces and even suggesting that one liberal editor resign.
Mr. Gorbachev's comments, made at a meeting with Soviet national editors and media executives Friday, indicate his growing frustration with the nation's mounting problems.
According to people who attended, he didn't advocate an end to glasnost, his policy of openness.
But he made clear that the press should show greater responsibility in its reporting and cut back on criticism of his reforms.
The text of his remarks hasn't been published, and editors say they have no instructions as to whether it will be.
Accounts of previous such meetings with media and other groups have been printed, sometimes after a delay of several days.
Although glasnost has given the government-controlled media here much greater freedom to report and criticize, Mr. Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders still regard newspapers and TV as important propaganda tools they can use at will.
According to participants at the meeting and Soviet journalists who were later briefed by their editors, Mr. Gorbachev blamed the press for fueling a nationwide mood of despondency.
In particular, he complained about some articles this summer that openly discussed the possibility of a coup or civil war in the Soviet Union, and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by printing stories about impending shortages.
He singled out the daily Izvestia and the weekly Argumenty i Fakty, and also gave stinging criticism of Yuri Afanasyev, a leading reformist historian who has written articles attacking the Communist Party.
Among other things, Mr. Gorbachev questioned whether Mr. Afanasyev should remain in the party.
The meeting lasted a little under two hours and was attended by most members of the ruling Politburo.
There was no other speaker apart from the Soviet leader, and those attacked weren't given the opportunity to defend themselves.
Mr. Afanasyev, who isn't an editor, didn't attend.
According to participants, Mr. Gorbachev was particularly incensed by an article on the front page of Argumenty i Fakty this month that examined the popularity of members of the Soviet Parliament.
The piece was based on a survey of 1,500 readers' letters and contained some criticism of Mr. Gorbachev himself.
The newspaper wrote that readers assessed his role both positively and negatively.
It said many thanked the Soviet leader for his "self-control, modesty, culture and ability to hear a speaker out."
But others criticized him, "for imposing his opinion on other deputies, giving commentaries to many speeches, holding elections with no choice of candidate, putting pressure on the voting process and maneuvering between the right and left wings" of the Parliament.
All this, the paper quoted readers as saying, "has seriously weakened his authority."
The Soviet leader apparently suggested to Argumenty i Fakty's editor, Vyacheslav Starkov, that he should resign.
The comment, which Mr. Starkov relayed to his staff, has sparked anger and bitterness at the paper.
Mr. Starkov has been summoned to see the Kremlin's ideology chief, Vadim Medvedev, in the near future, and may discover then if he is to be fired.
Izvestia was criticized for a front-page article last Wednesday that took a sharp look at the Parliament's activities.
It attacked the level of a debate on the private-sector cooperative movement, saying "the discussion was more like a riot than a civilized exchange of points of view."
And it questioned the speed with which the Parliament was adopting new legislation, often with a minimum of debate.
Speaking to foreign reporters, Ivan Laptev, Izvestia's editor, sought to play down Mr. Gorbachev's criticism, but he acknowledged that his paper had been singled out.
The Parliament yesterday approved legislation that imposes new restrictions on the cooperative movement, enabling local authorities to set ceilings for prices and preventing the "speculative" sale of goods in short supply for prices higher than that charged by the state.
Walter Sisulu and the African National Congress came home yesterday.
After 26 years in prison, Mr. Sisulu, the 77-year-old former secretary-general of the liberation movement, was dropped off at his house by a prison services' van just as the sun was coming up.
At the same time, six ANC colleagues, five of whom were arrested with him in 1963 and sentenced to life imprisonment, were reunited with their families at various places around the country.
And as the graying men returned to their homes, the ANC, outlawed in South Africa since 1960 and still considered to be the chief public enemy by the white government, defiantly returned to the streets of the country's black townships.
A huge ANC flag, with black, green and gold stripes, was hoisted over the rickety gate at Mr. Sisulu's modest house, while on the street out front, boys displayed the ANC colors on their shirts, caps and scarves.
At the small four-room home of Elias Motsoaledi, a leading ANC unionist and a former commander in the group's armed wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe, well-wishers stuck little ANC flags in their hair and a man tooted on an antelope horn wrapped in ANC ribbons.
"I am happy to see the spirit of the people," said Mr. Sisulu, looking dapper in a new gray suit.
As the crowd outside his home shouted "ANC, ANC," the old man shot his fists into the air.
"I'm inspired by the mood of the people."
Under the laws of the land, the ANC remains an illegal organization, and its headquarters are still in Lusaka, Zambia.
But the unconditional release of the seven leaders, who once formed the intellectual and organizational core of the ANC, is a de facto un-banning of the movement and the rebirth of its internal wing.
"The government can never put the ANC back into the bottle again," said Cassim Saloojee, a veteran anti-apartheid activist on hand to welcome Mr. Sisulu.
"Things have gone too far for the government to stop them now.
There's no turning back."
There was certainly no stopping the tide of ANC emotion last night, when hundreds of people jammed into the Holy Cross Anglican Church in Soweto for what became the first ANC rally in the country in 30 years.
Deafening chants of "ANC" and "Umkhonto we Sizwe" shook the church as the seven aging men vowed that the ANC would continue its fight against the government and the policies of racial segregation on all fronts, including the armed struggle.
And they called on the government to release Nelson Mandela, the ANC's leading figure, who was jailed with them and remains in prison.
Without him, said Mr. Sisulu, the freeing of the others "is only a half-measure."
President F.W. de Klerk released the ANC men -- along with one of the founding members of the Pan Africanist Congress, a rival liberation group -- as part of his efforts to create a climate of trust and peace in which his government can begin negotiations with black leaders over a new constitution aimed at giving blacks a voice in national government.
But Pretoria may instead be creating a climate for more turmoil and uncertainty in this racially divided country.
As other repressive governments, particularly Poland and the Soviet Union, have recently discovered, initial steps to open up society can create a momentum for radical change that becomes difficult, if not impossible, to control.
As the days go by, the South African government will be ever more hard pressed to justify the continued imprisonment of Mr. Mandela as well as the continued banning of the ANC and enforcement of the state of emergency.
If it doesn't yield on these matters, and eventually begin talking directly to the ANC, the expectations and promise raised by yesterday's releases will turn to disillusionment and unrest.
If it does, the large number of right-wing whites, who oppose any concessions to the black majority, will step up their agitation and threats to take matters into their own hands.
The newly released ANC leaders also will be under enormous pressure.
The government is watching closely to see if their presence in the townships leads to increased anti-government protests and violence; if it does, Pretoria will use this as a reason to keep Mr. Mandela behind bars.
Pretoria hasn't forgotten why they were all sentenced to life imprisonment in the first place: for sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government.
In addition, the government is figuring that the releases could create a split between the internal and external wings of the ANC and between the newly freed leaders and those activists who have emerged as leaders inside the country during their imprisonment.
In order to head off any divisions, Mr. Mandela, in a meeting with his colleagues before they were released, instructed them to report to the ANC headquarters in Lusaka as soon as possible.
The men also will be faced with bridging the generation gap between themselves and the country's many militant black youths, the so-called young lions who are anxious to see the old lions in action.
Says Peter Mokaba, president of the South African Youth Congress: "We will be expecting them to act like leaders of the ANC."
They never considered themselves to be anything else.
At last night's rally, they called on their followers to be firm, yet disciplined, in their opposition to apartheid.
"We emphasize discipline because we know that the government is very, very sensitive," said Andrew Mlangeni, another early Umkhonto leader who is now 63.
"We want to see Nelson Mandela and all our comrades out of prison, and if we aren't disciplined we may not see them here with us."
We don't know who is winning the drug war in Latin America, but we know who's losing it -- the press.
Over the past six months, six journalists have been killed and 10 kidnapped by drug traffickers or leftist guerrillas -- who often are one and the same -- in Colombia.
Over the past 12 years, at least 40 journalists have died there.
The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country.
The slaughter in Colombia was very much on the minds of 450 editors and publishers from Latin America, the United States, the Caribbean and Canada attending the 45th general assembly of the Inter-American Press Association in Monterrey, Mexico, this week.
On Tuesday the conference got word of another atrocity, the assassination in Medellin of two employees of El Espectador, Colombia's second-largest newspaper.
The paper's local administrator, Maria Luz Lopez, was shot dead, and her mother wounded, while her car was stopped for a red light.
An hour later, the paper's circulation manager, Miguel Soler, was shot and killed near his home.
The drug lords who claimed responsibility said they would blow up the Bogota newspaper's offices if it continued to distribute in Medellin.
They bombed the Bogota offices last month, destroying its computer and causing $2.5 million in damage.
El Espectador has been a special target because of the extraordinary courage of its publisher and his staff.
At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: "We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking.
They want to terrify the press and in particular El Espectador because it has always been a torchbearer in this war."
This comes from a man whose brother, Guillermo, was murdered in 1986.
The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions.
Many will use a common editorial.
A final statement yesterday said: "While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination."
The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before.
"Noriega has closed every independent newspaper, radio and television station and arrested, tortured or forced into exile a long list of reporters," the statement declared.
It added: "In Cuba, public enemy No. 1 of press freedoms in the hemisphere, repression of journalists both Cuban and foreign is worse than ever."
And in Nicaragua, promises of press freedom by the Sandinistas "have not materialized."
As it happens, the four countries cited, Colombia, Cuba, Panama and Nicaragua, are not only where the press is under greatest attack but also are linked by the drug trade and left-wing politics.
Noriega is close to Castro and may once have been his agent.
Sandinistas Thomas Borge and the Ortega brothers are Castro proteges; he backed their takeover of Nicaragua.
In Colombia, the drug-financed guerrillas trying to seize the country and destroy democracy include M-19, which Castro has clearly backed.
Robert Merkel, a former U.S. attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel.
"If the cartel succeeds in blackmailing the Colombian authorities into negotiations, the cartel will be in control and Fidel can exploit his past relationships with them," he told the Journal's David Asman recently.
The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing.
This week, the government arrested Jose Abello Silva, said to be the fourth-ranking cartel leader.
He will probably be extradited to the U.S. for trial under an extradition treaty President Virgilia Barco has revived.
Later, another high-ranking trafficker, Leonidas Vargas, was arrested and 1,000 pounds of dynamite seized.
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.
President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.
It might not be a bad idea to do that sooner, rather than later.
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance.
Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that.
But the sense of urgency for this meeting matches the rage felt by both Israelis and Palestinians after yesterday's violence.
Today Israel buried one of its two soldiers beaten to death bay a mob of Palestinians yesterday.
Today in Jerusalem, Israeli security forces barred Palestinians under the age of 45 from praying at the al-Aqsa mosque.
Young Palestinians prayed outside and some young men were asked and beaten by Israeli police which may help make clear why arranging a summit is so difficult.
And why the political leaders will have such a hard time keeping the streets -- getting the streets calm.
ABC's Gillian Findlay reports tonight from Palestinian Gaza.
On the streets of Gaza today, talk of summits and peace was the last thing many Palestinians wanted to hear.
Only a day after Israeli missiles destroyed two police boats here, one of them very close to Mr. Arafat's own office.
Today, Israel released footage of yesterday's other attacks shot from inside a helicopter gun ship.
These missiles landed in the city of Ramallah.
With Israeli gun boats continuing to control the coast today, Gaza police were taking no chances.
Abandoning their stations for the city's main square.
What Israel did yesterday has turned anger here to fury.
It is war, Palestinians say, and Mr. Arafat has no business talking peace.
You want a war?
Yes.
Why?
I hope.
Why?
Because no peace.
After all this, no peace.
At another rally in Georgia today, Islamic leaders called openly for terror attacks on Israel.
Extremist groups have a lot of support these days and a lot of power.
This afternoon, a crowd of angry Muslims set fire to a hotel and to homes of people who they say sold alcohol.
Palestinian police did little to stop them.
Even if Mr. Arafat goes to a summit, and even if he signs an agreement, there is no guarantee any more that his people will listen.
Gillian Findlay, ABC News, Gaza.
At the bottom of the sea.
Two months after the submarine "Kursk" went down with 118 men on board, divers have managed to get inside.
They found five bodies so far.
And today, they found a note, written after a pair of explosions ripped through the hull and sent the "Kursk" into the depths of the Barents see.
Here's ABC's bob woodruff.
The note was discovered by divers inside one compartment of the submarine, on the body of 27-year-old lieutenant captain Dmitry Kolesnikov, photographed here on board the "Kursk" three years ago.
"I am writing blindly," he wrote apparently in darkness.
"None of us can get to the surface."
Russian officials believe the note was written at least two hours after the sub began to sink.
"All the crew from the sixth, seventh and eighth compartments went over to the ninth."
Kolesnikov wrote, "There are 23 people here.
We made this decision as a result of the accident."
The note contains no new evidence about what sank the "Kursk," whether it was an internal explosion or a collision.
But it does contradict the official Russian version that was given to family members, that all 118 men had died instantly.
Today, the chief of Russia's navy was forced to admit to the families he was wrong, that some of the crew not only survived, according to Kolesnikov's note,
Two or three tried to get out through the escape hatch.
But it may have been flooded.
Today, Kolesnikov's widow could not hold back her tears.
"It's horribly painful, it's awful," she said.
"I had a feeling that he didn't die immediately, and it turned out my feeling was right."
She also says her husband had a premonition.
Last summer, before he went to sea, he gave her his dog tag and a crucifix, and said he may not be coming back.
Bob Woodruff, ABC news, London.
In news overseas, at a United Nations environmental summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, representatives from 122 nations signed an agreement banning the use of 12 highly toxic chemicals.
Among them, dioxins and other chemicals, which are known as "the dirty dozen."
They have been linked to cancer, birth defects, and other genetic abnormalities.
Tens of thousands of people took to the streets across the Middle East Thursday, demonstrating against military strikes on Iraq and calling on Muslims to wage jihad against the United States and its allies.
Lebanon and the Palestinian Authority issued fierce denunciations of the US-led attacks, while the Egyptian government daily Al-Ahram warned it marked "the beginning an era of US colonisation that will benefit only Israel".
Protests against the action aimed at toppling Iraqi President Saddam Hussein were held in cities across Libya, Egypt and Lebanon, as well as in Amman, Damascus and the Gaza Strip.
However, there were no reports of protests against the war from the Gulf states, many of whom are host to US military personnel.
Saudi Arabia, however, expressed its "deep concern" and regret over the start of US military operations.
Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal spoke of the "kingdom's hope for a quick halt in military action and for the return to peaceful efforts", the state SPA news agency reported.
In Riyadh's first reaction to the start of the against, he also called for Iraq's "unity, internal security and territorial integrity" to be preserved and rejected military occupation.
Lebanese President Emile Lahoud, meanwhile, was more forthright, strongly denouncing Washington's "aggression" and warning that it could have repercussions beyond the borders of the pariah state.
"We have warned against the marginalisation of the United Nations ... and we see this aggression today plunging the world into a tunnel where one cannot see the end," he said in a statement.
"For these reasons, we judge that it is necessary that the forces of peace and those who believe in right and justice take the necessary and rapid steps to halt this dangerous slide into war against Iraq which will result in heavy human and material losses."
The Palestinian Authority also condemned Thursday's early morning missile strikes on Iraq, and warned Israel not to exploit the conflict.
"We Palestinians are against the war and we totally condemn this war in the Middle East.
A solution must be found to this problem through diplomatic means, with the international community," local authorities minister Saeb Erakat said.
"We are warning Israel not to exploit this war against Iraq to carry out more attacks against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip and destroy the Palestinian Authority and the peace process," he said.
The radical Palestinian movement Islamic Jihad warned that "the war against Iraq is a war against the whole region", while Hamas issued a chilling warning against those taking part in the war against Iraq.
"The aggression by the vile Americans and the war against Iraq signifies a war against all Arabs and Muslims around the world," said Hamas senior official Abdul Aziz al-Rantissi.
The war "shows the impotence of all Arab states.
We call on all Arab states to act immediately to defend Iraq and counter the US war," he said.
"I don't think America will win this war, as our jihad (holy war) and our resistance will teach the Americans and British a lesson they will never forget," he said.
State radio in Syria accused the United States and its allies of wanting to get their "hands on Iraq's oil and wealth and impose their hegemony on the world".
In the Egyptian capital, 10 demonstrators and at least four policeman were injured in clashes after several thousand demonstrators took to the streets near the US and British embassies.
Riot police intervened after the protestors, who included hundreds of students from the American University in Cairo, rallied on the city's central Tahrir Square, close to both the university campus and the US embassy.
More than 1,000 people also gathered at Cairo's Al-Azhar Islamic University, where they burned an American flag and demanded the expulsion of the ambassadors of the United States, Britain, Spain and Israel.
Demonstrations also took place in the northern Egyptian cities of Alexandria, Tanta and Kafr el-Sheikh.
In Amman, three protestors were hospitalised after some 500 Jordanian lawyers staged a sit-in at the main court house after being forcibly blocked by riot police from marching towards the Iraqi embassy to show their solidarity.
In Lebanon, hundreds of students gathered on the campuses of the Arab University of Beirut and the American University of Beirut calling for the assassination of US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
South of the capital in Sidon, some 1,500 schoolboys denounced "the Bush assassin" and the "silence of the Arab leaders who sold out Iraq".
Fifteen people were killed and more than 30 wounded Wednesday as a suicide bomber blew himself up on a student bus in the northern town of Haifa, the first bombing in Israel in exactly two months.
Several hours later, dozens of Israeli tanks advanced into the northern Gaza Strip backed by helicopters which fired at least three rockets in the Jabaliya area, Palestinian security sources said.
Palestinian medical sources said 60-year-old Mohammed al-Biyari was killed in his home near Jabaliya refugee camp by the rocket fire and another wounded.
A second rocket landed in farmlands and the other hit a house inside the refugee camp, but without causing further casualties, Palestinian security sources said.
Two 13-year-old children were among those killed in the Haifa bus bombing, Israeli public radio said, adding that most of the victims were youngsters.
The army said two soldiers were also among the dead.
The bus was ripped to shreds while travelling between a residential area and Haifa university.
Of the 33 injured still in hospital late Wednesday, two were in intensive care and six others in serious condition, the radio said.
Israel's night-time raid in Gaza involving around 40 tanks and armoured vehicles came after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon convened his security cabinet to discuss a response to the bomb attack.
Israeli media said the retaliation was unlikely to be on a scale that would risk disrupting US preparations for war on Iraq.
The Palestinian suicide bomber on the Haifa bus came from the southern West Bank town of Hebron, public radio said, naming him as 20-year-old Mahmoud Hamadan Salim Qawasmi.
Apart from his ID card, also found in the wreckage were the remains of a letter allegedly outlining his plan to carry out a suicide attack and praising the September 2001 destruction of the World Trade Centre in New York, it said.
Israeli police were not immediately available for comment, but Palestinian sources in Hebron said Mahmoud Qawasmi was a 21-year-old student with links to the Islamic radical group Hamas.
Israeli forces moved into Hebron's Al-Sheikh district where his family lived and arrested Qawasmi's brother and father after the bombing, they said.
Without claiming responsibility, Hamas and another hardline group, Islamic Jihad, said the blast was revenge for a string of bloody Israeli army raids into the Gaza Strip in recent weeks.
But the Palestinian Authority condemned the attack, saying it would divert international sympathy away from the far higher Palestinian civilian death toll.
"We condemn all attacks against civilians including today's attack in Haifa," said information minister Yasser Abed Rabbo.
The Palestinian leadership said the attack would serve as "a pretext for Israel's government and occupation army to step up its deadly campaign which caused the deaths of 77 Palestinians in February".
It was the first bomb attack inside Israel since January 5, and came just days after the hawkish Sharon appointed the most right-wing government in Israel's history on a pledge to get tough on security.
In the January attack, two Palestinian suicide bombers blew themselves up in central Tel Aviv, killing 23 other people.
Israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner called the latest deadly blast a "very grave attack" and said the Jewish state would take "vigorous action against the terrorist organisations".
He told AFP that Israeli intelligence had been dealing with at least 40 tip-offs of impending attacks when the Haifa bus was blown up.
US President George W. Bush condemned the "attack on innocents in Israel," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said, adding that "his message to the terrorists is: Their efforts will not be succcessful.
"He will continue to pursue the path to peace in the Middle East."
EU foreign policy supremo Javier Solana likewise slammed the attack, although he also took a jab at Israel, saying, "There have been too many civilians killed in the last weeks and the last days."
In London, a spokesman for the British prime minister said Tony Blair "condemns absolutely what has happened".
The spokesman added that he "would obviously call on all sides to do what they can to break the cycle of violence, because it is only through engagement that we can realise the vision everyone wants to see.
"There needs to be dialogue in order for this to be resolved."
The bus attack came just two days after Israeli forces staged a bloody raid into a refugee camp in central Gaza targeting a founding member of Hamas, which has spearheaded suicide bombings against the Jewish state.
Hamas vowed to continue its attacks, while the Palestinian Authority accused Israel of trying to disrupt top-level Palestinian meetings to discuss reforms of Arafat's administration.
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat said international intervention was needed to break the cycle of violence.
Eight people, including a pregnant woman and a 13-year-old child were killed in Monday's Gaza raid, provoking US-led international calls for Israeli restraint.
And on Tuesday, Israeli troops shot dead an elderly Palestinian shepherd outside a Jewish settlement on the edge of Gaza City.
In the West Bank, an eight-year-old Palestinian boy as well as his brother and a sister were wounded late Wednesday by Israeli gunfire in a village north of the town of Ramallah, their elder sister said.
Thousands of fresh US troops headed for Iraq Thursday as British Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush discussed the effort to oust Saddam Hussein, which some senior US military officials warn could last months.
About 1,000 soldiers from the US Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade parachuted into an airfield in a Kurdish-controlled area of northern Iraq, establishing a base through which to bring in more troops and tanks, Pentagon officials said.
And some 12,000 soldiers from the US Army's 4th Infantry Division, which was supposed to have gone into northern Iraq through Turkey, began flying out of Fort Hood, Texas, Thursday to the region, a military fort spokeswoman told AFP.
The soldiers are to meet up with ships transporting their equipment, which is arriving in Kuwait from the Mediterranean, where it had been idling for weeks on navy ships awaiting Turkey's decision.
The war in Iraq could last months and require considerable US military reinforcements to assure a victory, the Washington Post reported Thursday, quoting senior US military officials.
Sandstorms, dangerously long supply lines and a recalcitrant enemy "has led to abroad reassessment by some top generals of US military expectations and timelines," the Post reports.
"Tell me how this ends," one senior officer asked the Post.
Most US army commanders believe it is critical to pause the breakneck advance towards Baghdad to secure the supply lines and make sure weapons are operable and troops resupplied after days of powerful sandstorms and damage inflicted by Iraqi attacks, the Post reports.
The Post also quoted Central Intelligence Agency and Pentagon intelligence analysts complaining that Bush officials largely ignored their warning that Iraqi irregular forces would use guerrilla tactics and offer significant resistance.
Publicly US officials have insisted that the war is going according to plan, and the most advanced US forces are currently some 100 kilometers (60 miles) outside of Baghdad.
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld dismissed worries that there were insufficient forces in the Gulf region if the battle for Baghdad goes wrong.
After briefing US senators on the war, Rumsfeld told reporters that the number of forces "has been increasing and it will continue to do so until it is finished."
Meanwhile Blair arrived in Washington late Wednesday for two days of talks with Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat.
Talks were to focus on how to run a post-Saddam Iraq, with Washington resisting a large United Nations role.
Blair faces an uphill battle to win Bush over to giving the UN oversight of a post-Saddam administration, as Washington officials are still angry at Germany, Russia, and especially France, over the failure to secure UN Security Council approval for military action.
Blair and Bush were to hold a joint press conference at 1600 GMT Thursday.
Britain has deployed some 45,000 troops to fight with the more than 250,000 US soldiers lined up against Iraqi troops.
Bush gave a new, stronger warning that the war could become drawn out.
"As they approach Baghdad, our fighting units are facing the most desperate elements of a doomed regime," Bush told cheering military personnel Wednesday at the Florida headquarters of Central Command, which is running the campaign.
"We cannot predict the final day of the Iraqi regime, but I can assure you -- and I assure the long-suffering people of Iraq -- there will be a day of reckoning for the Iraqi regime, and that day is drawing near," he said.
At the last minute, Bush withdrew a phrase in his speech saying the campaign was "ahead of schedule."
A senior administration official said the president had decided to be cautious.
Bush pointedly paid tribute to the 48-nation "coalition of the willing" -- particularly Britain -- that is publicly backing the campaign.
Separately, US Secretary of State Colin Powell emphasized US determination to pursue the military campaign despite the diplomatic pressure Washington faces at the United Nations.
"We are interested in concluding this conflict, not having a pause right now or stopping right now, but concluding this as quickly as possible so we can get on with the rebuilding of Iraq and putting in place a better system of governance," Powell said in an interview with the Al-Jazeera Arab
television network.
Powell, the most moderate member of the Bush cabinet, said he fully agreed with the president's policy on Iraq and had no plans to leave.
"Personally, I'm very much in sync with the president and he values my services," he said in an interview with National Public Radio.
Meanwhile the Wall Street Journal reported that several British and US oil companies have quietly advised US and British forces on how oil fields operate so they could safeguard the fields in Iraq.
The companies, including Britain's BP PLC and the Texas-based Boots and Coots International Well Control Inc., were not paid for their consultations, but allied military engineers said their advice was critical.
Some 2,500 mainly university students formed a human chain in Japanese characters spelling out "No War" in Osaka on Sunday to protest against the ongoing US-led military campaign in Iraq.
"We cannot forgive this war," Miyako Fuji, 20, one of the rally's organisers told Jiji news agency.
"I want to join together the feelings of each of us as individuals who oppose the war."
Protesters, who exceeded the 2,000 expected to show up at the park at Osaka Castle in the city's downtown neighbourhood, carried placards that read "Stop war" and "Love and Peace" while forming the human chain after 3:00 pm (0600 GMT), Jiji said.
The protest follows a string of others involving tens of thousands of peace activists across Japan since January.
According to a poll by Kyodo news agency released Saturday, 78 of 100 people surveyed opposed the military action in Iraq.
A separate poll of 1,846 adults by the leading Yomiuri newspaper published Tuesday showed 64 percent felt Japan had "no choice" but to back the United States, with only 12 percent saying Japan had "every reason" to back the war.
 British Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown on Tuesday named the current head of the country's energy regulator as the new chairman of finance watchdog the Financial Services Authority (FSA)
Former senior banker Callum McCarthy begins what is one of the most important jobs in London's financial world in September, when incumbent Howard Davies steps down.
Davies is leaving to become chairman of the London School of Economics, one of the best-known parts of the University of London.
Brown said McCarthy would bring to the FSA "an unrivalled combination of experience of the public sector, experience as a senior practitioner in the financial services industry, and chairman of a highly successful regulator."
McCarthy currently heads the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, or Ofgem, which regulates Britain's privatised energy industry.
As well as previously holding senior positions at Barclays Bank, BZW and Kleinwort Benson, McCarthy was formerly a top civil servant at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Under Davies's watch, the FSA became Britain's sole regulatory body for financial services in November 2001, taking on the various functions of nine separate agencies.
At least three members of a family in Indias northeastern state of Tripura were hacked to death by a tribal mob for allegedly practicing witchcraft, police said Thursday.
A spokesman said a group of 25 to 30 armed men Wednesday attacked a house belonging to a village quack doctor in Tultuli, 60 kilometers (38 miles) south of Tripuras state capital Agartala.
"The mob dragged out three members of a family and (killed) them with machetes and spears before fleeing the area," the spokesman said by telephone from Agartala.
The dead included the quack doctor, 55-year-old Nityalila Naotia, his teenaged son and another member of the family, whom he did not identify.
"It was believed Naotia was a practicing sorcerer and through his black magic he had cast evil spells on villagers, prompting a group within the village to eliminate them," the spokesman said.
Police have arrested four people in connection with the killings.
Superstitious beliefs, black magic and demonology are integral to the tribal custom in parts of Tripura and other northeast Indian states.
Many tribes practice faiths believed to be a mix of black magic and superstition.
A Pakistani court in central Punjab province has sentenced a Christian man to life imprisonment for a blasphemy conviction, police said Sunday.
Judge Shahid Rafiq, of the district court in the industrial city of Faisalabad, found Ranjha Masih guilty of defiling Koranic verses during a protest rally by the minority Christian community in 1998.
In a verdict handed down on Saturday, the judge also ordered Ranjha to pay a fine of 50,000 rupees (about 870 US dollars), they said.
Ranjha was accused of tearing down a billboard carrying verses from the Koran in Faisalabad during a Christian demonstration after the city's bishop committed suicide over the 1985 blasphemy law.
Faisalabad's Catholic Bishop John Joseph, who had been campaigning against the law, shot himself in the head outside a court in Sahiwal district when the judge convicted Christian Ayub Masih under the law in 1998.
Ayub Masih was charged in 1996 with blasphemy for allegedly defending British author Salman Rushdie, whose novel "The Satanic Verses" infuriated radical Mulsim clerics who accused the author of defaming Islam.
The Pakistani supreme court last year aquitted Ayub Masih, who had denied uttering any word against Islam or the Prophet Mohammad.
Blasphemy is punishable by death under the Pakistan Penal Code.
However, no blasphemy convict has ever been executed in the country.
Christian rights activists campaigning against the laws, introduced by late military dictator General Zia-ul Haq, say they are mainly used to persecute Christians or to settle feuds over land.
Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom on Wednesday stressed Qatar's role in the Middle East peace process during talks with his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani in Paris.
Shalom told a joint press conference that the tiny Gulf state's strong relationship with the recently appointed Palestinian prime minister, Mahmud Abbas, could be a boost for peace.
"We discussed the Middle East peace process.
Over an hour of talks, we asserted the will of both parties (Israel and the Arab world) to do everything to return to the negotiating table," Shalom said.
"Qatar is a very important country on this issue.
I know the special relationship that the Qatari foreign minister has with Abu Mazen," he said, using Abbas's alternative name.
The meeting was Shalom's first encounter with an Arab counterpart since he took office as Israel's foreign minister on February 27.
Qatar has economic links with Israel without maintaining diplomatic relations, in the face of criticism from other Arab countries.
Afterwards Shalom was to fly on to London for talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw.
US President George W. Bush told Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien by telephone Monday that he looked forward to seeing him at the upcoming summit of major industrialized nations and Russia, the White House said Tuesday.
"The two leaders discussed the upcoming G-8 meeting, US-Canada (relations) and other international issues of concern," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said days before the June 1-3 summit, to be held in France.
"Both said they look forward to seeing each other in Evian.
They also touched on Afghanistan, the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and on the global economy," said Fleischer.
Amid a chill in relations over the war in Iraq, which Canada opposed, Bush indefinitely postponed a visit to Canada, instead choosing to host Australian Prime Minster John Howard, who endorsed that military campaign.
On Monday, Chretien told reporters that he and Bush, who had not spoken since late February, discussed a wide range of issues, including Iraq, the upcoming summit of the Group of Eight industrial powers and aid to Africa.
A provincial chief from India’s main opposition congress party has told an election rally that India is suffering nature’s "curse" because both the president and prime minister and bachelors, a report said Saturday.
"We've always been on good terms.
We just disagree on one item," the Canadian leader said.
The Times of India newspaper quoted Digvijay Singh, chief minister of the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, as saying that Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and President Abdul Kalam had off ended the Hindu rain God Varuna by remaining bachelors.
"Not just Prime Minister Vajpayee but president Kalam’s bachelor status is making the country dry, arid and infertile," he added.
"The country is being ruled by a bachelor president and an unmarried prime minister.
This according to the Hindu shastras (books) is very inauspicious and that is the reason there is a widespread heat wave and drought, "said Singh.
The skeleton of a second baby has been found at a rural Wisconsin home where a 22-year-old woman's dead infant was discovered in a blue plastic container June 8, officials said Monday.
Kristin Scott, the mother, told police she gave birth secretly to both babies at her parents' home in Byrds Creek, Richland County, one of unknown sex in April 2001 and the other, a fullterm girl, January 14.
Police arrested her in Abilene, Texas, Saturday where she had moved with a friend June 2.
She is being held on 50,000 dollars bail on a charge of first-degree reckless homicide and hiding a corpse in the death of the infant born in January.
Scott told police she did not tend to the baby, and it died after 30 minutes.
She said the baby had to die, according to the criminal complaint.
The woman's parents, William and Nancy Scott, found the decomposing body of the first baby in her closet after they went looking for the source of a foul odor in their house.
Scott told investigators she had moved that body around before she moved to Texas, sometimes in the closet at the Byrds Creek house, in the trunk of her car and in the closet of her apartment in Richland Center, the complaint said.
The sheriff released no other details about the second baby.
Palestinian security forces returned Monday to the positions they held in the Gaza Strip before the outbreak of the 33-month Palestinian uprising as Israel removed all major checkpoints in the coastal territory, a Palestinian security source said.
Police officers took up their positions across the Gaza Strip, enjoying a freedom of movement they have not known since the intifada exploded in September 2000, the source said.
"Palestinian police have taken over all the posts and positions they held before September 28, 2000.
It is the first time they have had freedom of movement with cars and weapons since the start of the intifada," the source said.
The move marked a huge step forward in carrying out the US-backed Middle East "roadmap", which aims to end the months of bloodshed and create a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Following the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the northern town of Beit Hanoun late Sunday, police took up positions there and in the neighbouring town of Beit Lahiya, he said.
They also deployed along the border with Israel.
The handover is a credibility test for the Palestinian Authority, which must show it means business when it comes to reining in hardline groups plotting attacks on the Jewish state.
In another first in the almost three-year intifada, the Israeli army allowed Palestinians free circulation on the trans-Gaza highway as troops abandoned three major checkpoints across the coastal territory.
Traffic was flowing freely through the Netzarim junction, just south of Gaza City, the Kissufim junction by Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip, and the Guest House junction just south of Deir al-Balah after the army withdrew.
The three military checkpoints on the highway, which runs the entire length of the Gaza Strip, had transformed the trip from north to south, ordinarily a 30-minute ride, into a grinding two or three-hour ordeal and came to symbolise the horrors of occupation.
"Israel has implemented most of the agreement except for a few issues," the source said, pointing out that Israel had still not removed two military observation posts at the Kissufim junction and the Guest House junction.
Although there was free movement along the trans-Gaza highway, several other roads remained temporarily closed, he said.
The Karni-Netzarim road, which runs east-to-west across the route, was still closed as was the section of the highway passing close by Kfar Darom settlement, just south of the Guest House junction, he said, adding both were likely to be opened in the coming weeks.
Another road, leading from the southern border town of Rafah to Khan Yunis, would be opened within 10 days, he said.
Adressing Palestinian complaints, an Israeli military source confirmed troops had installed a gate at the Netzarim crossing and at the southern Guest House junction but said that they were only there for when Jewish settlers needed to use the road.
A ban on Palestinian men under the age of 35 being allowed to move freely was still in force but that was expected to be lifted later on Monday or early Tuesday.
The army also handed over control of Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt to the Palestinians, security sources said.
Six Palestinian police officers were allowed to return to the Palestinian section of the border crossing, which had been taken over by Israeli troops shortly after the start of the uprising.
Under the 1993 Oslo accords, which granted a measure of autonomy to the Palestinians, the Rafah border crossing with Egypt was to be jointly managed by both Israel and the Palestinians, although Israel had final control over the zone.
Although the crossing has, in principle, been open for movement between the two territories -- while being frequently closed by Israeli for reasons rarely explained -- the Palestinian section has been manned by Israel for more than two years.
I wish I could have been at a Pub, or wherever these people convene, to see the reactions from all the Britons who read the Telegraph this morning (emphasis added): Britain's gun laws are aimed at the wrong target, curbing and criminalising legal ownership while failing to tackle huge rises in shooting offences over the past few years, according to an international firearms legislation expert.
Prof Gary Mauser said that Britain was making the same mistake as Canada and Australia in focusing on legal owners - a section of the law-abiding community where gun crimes, such as the Dunblane massacre, were aberrations.
The Home Office and police chiefs should instead tackle the possession of guns in criminal hands, said Prof Mauser, a member of the independent Fraser Institute in Canada.
He has given evidence to select committees of the House of Commons and the Canadian Senate and predicted the escalation of gun crime on Britain's streets.
His warning comes as gun crime incidents are averaging about 29 a day in England and Wales, more than twice the level of when the Labour Government came to power in 1997 .
In the past two years, there have been cases of schoolchildren and a baby, killed or injured by guns.
"I believe that factors of political correctness are at work," he said.
"Police crackdowns, Home Office initiatives and over-regulation of legally held weapons create froth and they may even fool the police themselves into believing they are doing something about gun crime."
Prof Mauser added: "The sad truth is that while the police officers are inspecting farmers' gun cabinets to see if they comply with regulations somewhere in the UK, someone, who has not filled in a firearms certificate form, will be smuggling a gun into the country or selling one to an inner city youth."
Recorded gun crime rose by three per cent to 10,590 incidents in the year to June.
Two-thirds of gun crime takes place in London, Birmingham and Manchester.
It doesn't matter to these people that crime has skyrocketed since the irrational ban on private gun possession went into effect in Great Britain.
Just as long as it's there, they feel safe.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld took part in a Q&A with the troops today that was anything but cozy.
Disgruntled soldiers complained to Rumsfeld about long deployments and a lack of armored vehicles and other equipment.
From the Associated Press : "You go to war with the Army you have," Rumsfeld replied, "not the Army you might want or wish to have."
Spc. Thomas Wilson had asked the defense secretary, "Why do we soldiers have to dig through local landfills for pieces of scrap metal and compromised ballistic glass to up-armor our vehicles?"
Shouts of approval and applause arose from the estimated 2,300 soldiers who had assembled to see Rumsfeld.
"We do not have proper armored vehicles to carry with us north," Wilson, 31, of Nashville, Tenn., concluded after asking again.
Wilson, an airplane mechanic whose unit, the 278th Regimental Combat Team of the Tennessee Army National Guard, is about to drive north into Iraq for a one-year tour of duty, put his finger on a problem that has bedeviled the Pentagon for more than a year.
Rarely, though, is it put so bluntly in a public forum.
Rumsfeld said the Army was sparing no expense or effort to acquire as many Humvees and other vehicles with extra armor as it can.
What is more, he said, armor is not the savior some think it is.
"You can have all the armor in the world on a tank and a tank can (still) be blown up," he said.
Can't say that's the most comforting answer.
From the Associated Press : City residents will vote next year on a proposed weapons ban that would deny handguns to everyone except law enforcement officers, members of the military and security guards.
If passed next November, residents would have 90 days to give up firearms they keep in their homes or businesses.
The proposal was immediately dismissed as illegal by a gun owners group.
Firearms would be allowed only for police officers, security guards, members of the military, and anyone else "actually employed and engaged in protecting and preserving property or life within the scope of his or her employment," according to the measure.
Gun Owners of California, a Sacramento-based lobbying group, quickly called the ban illegal.
Sam Paredes, the group's executive director, said state law bars local governments from usurping the state's authority to regulate firearms.
"The amazing thing is they are going to turn San Francisco into ground zero for every criminal who wants to profit at their chosen profession," Paredes said.
Washington, D.C., is the only major American city that currently bans handgun possession by private citizens.
Andrew Arulanandam, director of public affairs for the National Rifle Association, said San Francisco would be remiss to use that city as a model.
"If gun control worked, Washington, D.C., would be the beacon.
However, it's the murder capital of the United States," he said.
If approved, the weapons ban would take effect in January 2006.
Quote of the day: "Firearms would be allowed only for police officers, security guards, members of the military, and anyone else actually employed and engaged in protecting and preserving property or life within the scope of his or her employment."
So preserving property or life within the scope of self-defense and protection of the home is not allowed.
No thanks.
If the people vote for this measure it will be hard to sympathize with them when robbery and rape rates skyrocket, because burgulars will know homes are not guarded, and rapists will know the only thing stopping them from the victim they desire is their own inhibitions.
From the Associated Press : A baby girl who had been cut out of her mother's womb was found after a frantic search, and authorities arrested the woman they say strangled the mother and stole the child.
The baby was in good condition Saturday.
Lisa M. Montgomery, 36, of Melvern, Kan., was arrested later Friday and charged with kidnapping resulting in death.
Bobbie Jo Stinnett, 23, was found Thursday in a pool of blood inside her small white home in Skidmore, a town in northwest Missouri.
Stinnett, who was eight months pregnant, had earlier been talking with her mother on the phone, and hung up saying a woman she had chatted with online had just arrived at her door, authorities said.
U.S. Attorney Todd Graves said Montgomery contacted Stinnett through an online message board, and authorities zeroed in on her using computer forensics.
Montgomery was seeking to buy a dog from Stinnett, who raised rat terriers, he said.
According to the criminal complaint, Montgomery traveled about 40 miles to Topeka, Kan., on Thursday to go shopping.
Her husband received a call from her saying she had gone into labor and given birth.
The next day, authorities say, Montgomery confessed that she strangled Stinnett from behind, cut her open, removed the baby and cut her umbilical cord.
I don't understand how we can call this fetus-thing that was ripped from a mother's womb a "child" or "girl" in a society that sanctions partial-birth abortion.
If you can't charge someone for killing a fetus via abortion during the eighth month, then surely you can't make a big deal about a woman who kidnapped a fetus that survived the knifing.
On a less-sarcastic note, I pray for the family of the 23-year-old woman.
No one should have to die because some crazy nut wanted a child and decided to kill for it.
If there's any good news in this story, it's that Victoria Jo will live on and carry her mother's memory.
Question for the pro-choicers: Being that it isn't yet the ninth month, can we still charge the killer with kidnapping?
Feminists have a reason to celebrate today as an appeals court just threw out the convictions of their martyr, Andrea Yates, by ruling that one of the prosecutor's expert witnesses gave false testimony at her trial.
Yates, in case you have forgotten, is the women from Texas who heinously drowned her five kids, aged 6 months to 7 years, one by one, in her bathtub.
Liberal feminist organizations rushed to Yates' defense, most notably the National Organization for Women, which provided money for her defense fund and held candlelight vigils.
No such ceremonies were held for her five dead children.
In 2002 a jury sentenced Yates to life in prison for the deaths of three of her children.
She was not tried in the deaths of the other two.
Today the 1st Court of Appeals overturned the convictions and ordered a new trial.
We can only hope for the same verdict.
The blood red nation of China is trying to curb the effects of a devastating 20-year-old policy that outlawed women from having more than one child.
As a result, only about 100 girls are born for every 119 boys, because couples traditionally favor males.
Beijing has set a goal of reversing the imbalance by 2010, and to do this they will outlaw the selective abortion of female fetuses to correct an imbalance in the ratio of boys to girls.
So now by killing the males they can hopefully narrow the gender gap.
What a country!
From Reuters : Sex-selective abortion is already banned but technologies such as ultrasound have made it easier to know a baby's gender in advance, increasing the chances for aborting girls.
Despite a desire to curb the sex imbalance and a relaxation in recent years that allows rural families to have two children if the first is a girl, China has shown no sign of abandoning the one-child policy and cracks down on those who advocate against it.
One such activist is Mao Hengfeng, who was dismissed in 1988 from her job at a Shanghai soap factory after becoming pregnant a second time.
Last April, the Shanghai public security bureau sentenced her to 18 months in a labor camp for campaigning against the one-child policy.
In other news: feminists still believe they're second-class citizens in the United States.
A CNN poll asks readers to rate the president's State of the Union speech last night.
After 90,000 votes Mr. Bush has a 'C-C+' grade across the board, meaning 45,000 Republicans gave him an 'A' and 45,000 liberals failed him.
But a new CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll suggests more people side with the president.
70 percent of respondents said Bush's policies on health care were positive, while 66 percent approved of the president's plan for Social Security.
78 percent said U.S. policy in Iraq is hading in the right direction, a 12 percentage point increase over pre-speech polling.
Overall, 77 percent of respondents said Bush is taking the country in the right direction after the speech compared to 67 percent beforehand.
And who wasn't moved by the embrace of mother of a soldier killed in Iraq and the daughter of a man killed by Saddam Hussein's regime?
It was a beautiful moment last night that resulted in the longest standing ovation of the evening.
Today the parents of Marine Corps Sgt. Byron Norwood said the Iraqi woman, Safia Taleb al-Suhail, had turned and introduced herself just before the speech.
"She thanked us for our son's sacrifice and made sure we knew the people in Iraq were grateful for the sacrifices that were made not just by our son, but by all of them," Janet Norwood said.
It was an uplifting moment suggesting that maybe we're doing the right thing.
I talked to a friend currently serving in Iraq last night and he says morale is up and the presence of troops is a positive thing.
They just can't pack up and leave.
Not just yet.
We must be patient.
We've all lived next to some pretty undesirable people at one point or another, but I can't imagine anyone being worse than this.
A Colorado judge ordered two teen-age girls to pay about $900 for the distress a neighbor said they caused by giving her home-made cookies adorned with paper hearts.
The pair were ordered to pay $871.70 plus $39 in court costs after neighbor Wanita Renea Young, 49, filed a lawsuit complaining that the unsolicited cookies, left at her house after the girls knocked on her door, had triggered an anxiety attack that sent her to the hospital the next day.
Taylor Ostergaard, then 17, and Lindsey Jo Zellitte, 18, paid the judgment on Thursday after a small claims court ruling by La Plata County Court Judge Doug Walker, a court clerk said on Friday.
The girls baked cookies as a surprise for several of their rural Colorado neighbors on July 31 and dropped off small batches on their porches, accompanied by red or pink paper hearts and the message: "Have a great night."
The Denver Post newspaper reported on Friday that the girls had decided to stay home and bake the cookies rather than go to a dance where there might be cursing and drinking.
Zebra Report has a picture of the good-intentioned girls.
Maybe delinquency does pay off better.
From the Associated Press : A lone gunman opened fire with an assault rifle Sunday inside a crowded mall in upstate New York, wounding one person before running out of ammunition and being subdued by employees, authorities said.
The gunman began shooting inside the Hudson Valley Mall shortly after 3 p.m. in Kingston, nearly 90 miles north of New York City.
The 24-year-old gunman went into a Best Buy store and started firing.
When he ran out of ammunition, he was captured by mall employees, police said.
Ulster Town Supervisor Fred Wadnola identified the gunman's weapon as an AK-47 assault rifle.
"Everyone was running and screaming.
Then I heard the shots," witness Heather Craig told Fox News.
Whoa!
You're telling me someone was able to take an AK-47 "assault rifle" into a mall and injure people?!
But it's New York.
They have gun laws!
And because New York has such strict gun laws - meaning citizens are prohibited from concealing weapons - a gunner can use bag-toting shoppers as target practice because guns laws keep mall shoppers at his mercy.
Had an armed civilian been inside the mall, perhaps he could have intervened before the suspect began injuring people before he ran out of ammo.
But not in New York.
Because there people like me who have never had so much as a traffic ticket in life cannot conceal weapons, unlike in Florida, where you walk past us everyday without even knowing it.
From the St. Pete Times : Some Florida legislators want to give people the right to shoot an attacker in a public place.
A House committee voted Wednesday to allow people to shoot to kill in self-defense if they are attacked "in any other place where he or she has a right to be."
Sponsored by Rep. Dennis Baxley, an Ocala Republican, the bill (HB 249) passed 13-0.
State law defines deadly force as that which is likely to cause "death or great bodily harm," such as firing a gun at a person or a vehicle.
Florida courts consider deadly force a last resort and have held that a person being attacked has the "duty to use every reasonable means to avoid the danger, including retreat, prior to using deadly force."
But this legislation says a person who is under attack in a public place "has no duty to retreat."
"Law-abiding people should not be told that if they are attacked, they should turn around and run," NRA lobbyist Marion Hammer told lawmakers.
"This bill gives back rights that have been eroded and taken away by a judicial system that at times appears to give preferential treatment to criminals."
Baxley held up a stack of more than 800 e-mails from Floridians who he said have written him to support the bill.
He said 62 House members, a majority, have endorsed his bill, and supporters include Attorney General Charlie Crist and groups representing Florida sheriffs, police chiefs and police officers.
Rep. Jeff Kottkamp, R-Cape Coral, said the bill reminded him of a sign he saw on a constituent's house while campaigning door-to-door.
Kottkamp said the sign, next to a doorbell, showed a smoking .44-Magnum handgun and the words: "We don't dial 911."
This is great news for Florida gun carriers because now to defend yourself you don't have to first make sure a "duty to retreat" is impossible.
Currently, if one's life is threatened he/she must make sure it is impossible to escape before using deadly force on an attacker.
Slobodan Milosevic's wife will go on trial next week on charges of mismanaging state property during the former president's rule, a court said Thursday.
Mirjana Markovic, the power behind the scenes during Milosevic's 13-year reign, is accused of illegally providing their grandson's nanny with a state-owned luxury apartment in Belgrade in 2000.
The Belgrade district court said that Markovic will be tried along with 10 other Milosevic-era officials who face similar charges of ``inappropriate use of state property'' that carry a sentence of up to five years in jail.
The trial will start on March 13, the court said.
Milosevic and his wife wielded enormous power in Yugoslavia for more than a decade before he was swept out of power after a popular revolt in October 2000.
The post-Milosevic government later extradited him to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands.
Since then, many of Milosevic's political and business allies as well as his two children have been accused of crimes.
Markovic, the leader of the neo-communist Yugoslav Left party, lost her parliamentary immunity from prosecution after she failed to become a deputy in the parliament of Serbia and Montenegro, the country that last month succeeded Yugoslavia.
The charismatic leader of Turkey's governing party was named prime minister Tuesday, a step that probably boosts chances that the United States will get permission to deploy troops in the country along Iraq's northern border.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who favors the deployment, hinted that he will reshuffle the Cabinet, but gave no indication if he would purge officials who opposed letting in the troops as analysts have suggested he might do.
Erdogan is extremely popular in Turkey and is likely be one of the few leaders with enough clout to unite his party and gain public support for allowing in the U.S. troops.
Turks overwhelmingly oppose a war -- by 94 percent, according to some polls.
Earlier this month, the Turkish parliament shocked the United States by rejecting the deployment by just four votes.
Erdogan has hinted that he will resubmit the resolution for approval, which could take another week.
The United States is pressing Turkey to act quickly.
Ships carrying equipment for U.S. troops are already waiting off the Turkish coast.
In Washington, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers told a Pentagon news conference Tuesday that the United States would ``have a northern option whether or not Turkey fully supports all our requests.
``I'm not going to talk about the operational ways of doing it, but just be assured there will be a northern option,'' he said.
Also in Washington, Turkish Ambassador Farouk Logoglu told The Associated Press that the U.S. and Turkish militaries were holding informal discussions on the use of Turkish airspace.
The troop-basing resolution would allow the United States to use Turkish airspace.
If the resolution is not passed, Washington would likely want to use the airspace for strikes against Iraq and for airlifting troops to northern Iraq.
Refusing access to the troop deployment would mean Turkey would lose a US$15 billion U.S. aid package that Washington has offered to help cushion the country's economy if there is war.
It would also threaten Turkey's possible role in the future of Iraq.
Turkey, which fears northern Iraqi Kurds may declare independence in the aftermath of a war, has been pressing for a say if Saddam Hussein is ousted.
Secession by Iraqi Kurds could inspire Turkey's rebel Kurds, who for 15 years have been fighting for autonomy.
After he was elected, Erdogan said Turkey wanted assurances from the United States on its role in Iraq.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday there had been talks that Turkish troops could be deployed ``a short distance from their border to try to avoid refugee infiltration.''
Iraqi Kurds fear that Turkish troops could move deep into the autonomous enclave in northern Iraq and have threatened clashes.
Rumsfeld also said that like Turkey, the United States doesn't want to see a breakaway state: ``Our interest, needless to say, is to see that Iraq remains a single country,'' he said at the Pentagon news conference.
Prime Minister Abdullah Gul resigned earlier Tuesday to make way for Erdogan, who won a parliamentary seat in by-elections Sunday.
Gul will remain as a caretaker prime minister until President Ahmet Necdet Sezer approves Erdogan's Cabinet, a move that could happen as early as Wednesday.
Erdogan said he would submit his Cabinet list to the president ``as soon as possible,'' and leaders of Erdogan's Justice and Development Party met Tuesday evening.
When asked about possible changes in the Cabinet, Erdogan said: ``Perhaps there will be a small amount of change, a certain number of revisions.''
Gul's resignation had been long expected.
Erdogan heads the party but was constitutionally barred from running in November elections because he was jailed in 1999 for anti-secular activities.
The Justice party changed the constitution after taking power in the elections.
Erdogan, a leader of Turkey's pro-Islamic movement when he was jailed, said he moderated his policies in prison.
His party considers itself conservative and no longer uses the word 'Islamic' in its literature.
He now also advocates letting in U.S. troops for a war against Iraq even though it is a fellow Muslim state.
Unlike the soft-spoken Gul, Erdogan has a reputation as a fighter.
``Erdogan will be willing to engage in a bruising confrontation in a way that Gul was not willing to,'' said Bulent Aliriza, an analyst at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.
``If Erdogan decides that for his own reasons, and not U.S. pressure, he wants this, he will push it through.''
Tensions over the basing agreement spilled over into parliament Tuesday when opposition deputy Ufuk Ozkan shouted ``You are all American lackeys!'' at members of Erdogan's party, the Anatolia news agency reported.
A furious Justice party member, Fehmi Husrev Kutlu, rushed toward Ozkan, bumping into him and sending his eyeglasses flying, Anatolia reported.
Other legislators surrounded the two to head off a brawl.
U.S. and British troops were moving on the strategic southern port city of Basra Saturday after a massive aerial assault pounded Baghdad at dawn.
Thousands of beleaguered Iraqi soldiers in the south surrendered in the face of the major push.
The battle for Basra, an oil hub of some 1.3 million people, was underway by midday, with coalition troops trying to surround Iraqi positions and force a surrender.
U.S. aircraft bombed Iraqi tanks holding bridges close to the city.
Iraqi forces responded with artillery fire.
Earlier Saturday, Baghdad was again targeted, one day after a massive U.S. aerial bombardment in which more than 300 Tomahawk cruise missiles rained down on the capital.
The nine-story Security Headquarters in the Iraqi capital took a direct hit, strewing bricks, masonry and glass across the street in the al-Salhiya neighborhood of central Baghdad.
As coalition troops advanced, an entire Iraqi army division gave itself up, U.S. military officials said.
The division -- the 51st Infantry Division, with 8,000 men and as many as 200 tanks, a key unit in the defense of Basra -- was the largest defection in a day when Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's forces showed signs of crumbling.
Allied successes were marred by the collision of two Royal Navy helicopters over the Persian Gulf in which all six British crew members and one American were killed.
Saturday morning, American Marines and British troops rumbled along the main road from the Kuwaiti border to Basra, Highway 80, nicknamed the ``Highway of Death'' during the 1991 Gulf War, when U.S. airstrikes wiped out an Iraqi military convoy along it.
American units advancing west of Basra have already secured the Rumeila oil field, whose daily output of 1.3 million barrels makes it Iraq's most productive.
Until Basra, U.S. and British troops had encountered little resistance, even when they seized nearby Umm Qasr, and moved to secure key oil fields.
Iraqis mostly fought back with small arms, pistols, machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades.
Regular Iraqi forces had withdrawn from Basra but elements of Saddam's security forces are continuing to resist, British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said Saturday.
Other units moved into airfield complexes in western Iraq believed to have Scud missiles capable of reaching Israel, and possibly weapons of mass destruction.
Early Saturday, more units were waiting in Kuwait to smash through any Iraqi resistance.
Hundreds of tanks, armored personnel carriers, Humvees and trucks were lined up in parallel columns waiting in single-file to cross the Iraqi-Kuwait border.
By early next week, U.S. ground forces led by the Army's 3rd Infantry Division are likely to be at the outskirts of Baghdad, where they could face greater danger from the Republican Guard, some commanders said.
After weeks of delay, Turkey relented and agreed to let combat aircraft fly over its territory.
At the same time, however, Turkey sent 1,000 troops into northern Iraq, and the government said it would send more to prevent Iraqi Kurds from creating an independent state.
The United States strongly opposes any unilateral move by Turkey into northern Iraq.
A Turkish military spokesman on Saturday denied Turkish troops had crossed into Iraq.
The United States and Britain suffered their first casualties Thursday and Friday as they pushed into Iraq, with two U.S. Marines killed in combat and another eight British and four American Marines dying in a helicopter crash that appeared to be accidental.
There was no clear figure of Iraqi casualties.
Australian commandos, who have been operating deep in Iraq, destroyed a command and control post and killed a number of soldiers, according to the country's defense chief, Gen. Peter Cosgrove.
In an address Saturday, Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf told Iraqis that fighting had been ``fierce.''
He said most of those captured by allied forces were civilians, not soldiers.
He claimed Iraqi troops had destroyed five tanks.
He said more than 200 Iraqis had been injured, including women, children and other civilians who were being treated at five hospitals in Baghdad.
Hoon said Saddam's regime was crumbling under the pressure of a huge air assault.
``As last night's dramatic television coverage showed, the lights stayed on in Baghdad, but the instruments of tyranny are collapsing,'' he said.
Iraqi Vice President Taha Yasin Ramadan, speaking on Iraqi Radio, was quoted by the British Broadcasting Corp.'s monitoring service as accusing Britain and the United States of working to ``eliminate'' the state of Iraq.
In a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, Ramadan said, ``It is also regrettable and deplorable that the (U.N.) General Secretariat has not issued any statement or reaction that condemns or deplores this aggression.''
Despite the heavy bombing, which the U.S. Central Command said targeted military command and control installations, the Iraqi regime gave no sign of quitting.
Bombers have also hit targets in the northern cities of Mosul, Kirkuk and Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
The Iraqi government released a video of Saddam, in uniform, meeting with his son Qusai, the commander of the Republican Guard, and the defense minister, Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmad.
It was unclear when the video was made.
U.S. intelligence officials said the Iraqi command and control system was in disarray, and U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said, ``The regime is starting to lose control of their country.''
Kurdish militiamen and U.S. special operations troops linked up with more than 1,000 U.S. Army paratroopers Thursday to secure the area around a strategic air strip, as the first large coalition ground force in northern Iraq began opening another front against Saddam Hussein's regime.
The Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade , including elite Army Rangers, jumped out of low-flying C-17 transport planes under cover of darkness Wednesday and secured a snow-dusted airfield, which will be used to bring in supplies and support personnel.
The airdrop -- one of the biggest paratroop drops in decades -- was a dramatic entry for ground troops into a region where only small groups of U.S. special forces have been operating.
Coalition airstrikes have been hitting Iraqi military forces and other strategic targets in the north.
``This tightens the noose against Saddam's forces battling coalition forces to the south,'' Brig. Gen. James Parker, commander of U.S. forces in the north.
``And it may also serve as a warning to Turkish forces.''
Giving cover for the deployment, U.S. warplanes struck Iraqi ground troops and bunkers in northern Iraq.
Three waves of combat planes from the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt hit ``ground troops, command and control bunkers, artillery positions and ... a surface to air missile battery,'' said Lt. John Oliveira, the ship's public affair officer.
Around dawn Thursday, strikes resumed, with a massive explosion just outside the Kurdish zone close to the village of Kalak.
Warplanes pounded forward Iraqi positions in the hills overlooking Chamchamal, 35 kilometers (22 miles) east of the key oil city of Kirkuk.
Later Thursday, Kurdish troops in Chamchamal advanced their positions between government-controlled and rebel-controlled areas, taking over a Iraqi check point on their front with no fighting at this point, witnesses said.
Early Thursday, Kurdish fighters closed off a highway and roads near the airstrip where troops were said to be arriving, outside the town of Bashur, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) northeast of the Kurd-controlled city of Irbil and 30 miles (50 kilometers) south of the Turkish border.
From the highway, dusted from a recent snow, a flashing light from the airstrip's control tower was visible in the distance, and three helicopters could be seen landing, flying with nearly all their lights extinguished.
Future airlifts into the area will include supplies and support personnel for the 173rd's fighters, defense officials said.
The airfield's 6,700-foot (2,042-meter) runway is long enough to land C-17s and other U.S. military cargo planes.
Lt. Col. Thomas Collins, a spokesman for the U.S. Army's Southern European Task Force, refused to say whether the paratroopers deployed directly from Italy into Iraq or had taken a different route.
The matter immediately sparked controversy in Italy, where there is a strong anti-war movement.
The country's parliament voted this month to allow U.S.-led coalition forces to use Italian air space and military bases -- but not for directs attacks on Iraq.
Pentagon officials have said for weeks they would have U.S. forces in northern Iraq to open another front against Saddam's forces.
The vast majority of the coalition ground troops in Iraq are moving toward Baghdad from the south after entering from Kuwait.
Pentagon officials had hoped to have the Army's 4th Infantry Division invade Iraq from the north, but Turkey balked at allowing up to 62,000 U.S. troops on its soil to prepare for that option.
The use of the 173rd shows the military has shifted to a smaller, lighter force.
Military officials say they would have liked to have secured key oil fields around the northern cities of Mosul and Kirkuk -- and perhaps the cities themselves -- by now.
Though no hostilities were expected during the deployment, the 173rd decided to parachute in rather then ferry troops in by plane so that a significant combat force could mass almost immediately to protect itself, officers said, according to a U.S. reporter traveling with the 173rd.
``Kirkuk is key.
The Iraqi's want it, the Kurds want it, the Turks want it and various other ethnic groups also want it,'' Maj. Mike Hastings said.
``What this drop means is that we can secure it until we are relieved by other forces.''
Besides Mosul and Kirkuk, another key target in northern Iraq is Tikrit, Saddam's hometown and the tribal center for most of his inner circle.
Most of the Adnan Division of the Republican Guard relocated from the Mosul area to the Tikrit area shortly before the war began.
Another key mission for the 173rd could be to keep order in northern Iraq, which is controlled by two semi-autonomous Kurdish factions but also includes several splinter groups and a base for the al-Qaida-linked Ansar al-Islam.
Turkey has said it may send more troops into northern Iraq to prevent refugees from moving north, while U.S. officials have said they advised Turkey against sending large additional forces into northern Iraq.
Former Danish international Stig Toefting dropped his appeal of an assault conviction and will serve a four-month jail sentence, Denmark's TV2 reported Monday.
Toefting was convicted in October 2002 of assaulting a pair of restaurant workers during a night out with national squad teammates in the capital, Copenhagen.
He was sentenced to four months in prison, but appealed.
The hearing was scheduled for April 10.
TV2, quoting Toefting's lawyer Anders Nemeth, reported that that 33-year-old midfielder was ready to serve his sentence immediately.
Neither Toefting or Nemeth were immediately available for comment.
Earlier this month, Toefting said English Premier League club Bolton let him go so he could prepare for the appeal.
It was unclear whether Toefting would return to Bolton after serving his sentence.
The club said it wasn't aware of Toefting's decision to drop his appeal.
Toefting transferred to Bolton in February 2002 from German club Hamburg.
Toefting has been convicted before.
In 1999 he was given a 20-day suspended sentence for assaulting a fan who berated him for playing with German club Duisburg.
The popular player -- known for his temperament and the words ``No Regret'' tattooed across his chest -- retired from Denmark's national team after it was knocked out in the second round of the 2002 World Cup.
Toefting joined the Danish squad in 1993 and has 41 caps.
U.S. soldiers moved to capture Baghdad's Saddam International Airport early Friday and fought running battles with Iraqi defenders along the city's southern fringes.
``A vise is closing on the regime,'' U.S. President George W. Bush said.
Some frontline units went on heightened alert against the threat of chemical weapons, ordered to wear rubber boots and suits despite temperatures that soared into the 90s.
There was fierce fighting in Kut, to the south of Baghdad, where desperate Iraqis armed with rifles charged tanks in a suicide raid.
``We mowed down'' the attackers, said Lt. Col. B.P. McCoy.
Despite declarations that more tough fighting lies ahead, the top U.S. military official indicated there may not be an all-out battle for Baghdad.
Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, suggested isolating members of the old regime in the capital -- cut off from the rest of the country -- while an ``interim administration'' is put in place to begin work on a postwar government.
A meeting to organize an interim government could be held in Iraq within a week, a senior Pentagon official said Thursday night.
For the first time in the war, large parts of Baghdad lost electricity.
The cause was not known.
Myers told reporters at a Pentagon briefing that Americans had not targeted the power grid.
Tracer rounds lit the night sky and artillery boomed near the airport a few kilometers (miles) from the heart of President Saddam Hussein's capital of 5 million people.
At one stage, it appeared that U.S. forces had taken control of the airport, ``and then it got more confusing with continued fighting, Myers said Thursday night.
Capture of the airport would give American and British troops a facility for airlifting equipment and troops to Baghdad.
Along the city's southern edge, U.S. tanks and Bradley vehicles destroyed at least seven Iraqi armored personnel carriers and more than 15 Iraqi tanks in fighting that went on for more than four hours.
Two weeks into the war, American commanders reported a string of successes -- on the battlefield and within an Iraqi population initially reluctant about embracing invading troops.
Kurdish fighters in the north chipped in, when a top leader suggested they may agree not to seek control of the northern city of Kirkuk.
There were battlefield setbacks, as well.
Two Marines were killed and one injured in the close-quarters fighting in Kut.
And an Army soldier investigating a destroyed tank in central Iraq was killed by friendly fire when he was mistaken for an Iraqi, the military said.
U.S. defense officials also were investigating whether a Navy Hornet jet that crashed Wednesday was shot down by a U.S. Patriot missile.
The Navy was searching for the pilot Thursday.
The overall toll of American troops dead passed 50, and Bush visited a Marine camp, which has lost 13 -- more than any other installation.
``He's in heaven,'' the commander in chief told the family of one fallen Marine in a private moment.
To the cheers of thousands earlier in a speech, he vowed victory, and said, ``A vise is closing on the regime.''
Iraqi officials issued the latest in a series of exhortations in Saddam's name.
``Fight them with your hands.
God will disgrace them,'' they said, referring to invading American and British troops.
But the daily urgings seemed increasingly at odds with the military situation across the country, and Myers said Saddam had lost control of 45 percent of Iraq's territory.
As conventional units fought their way to the outskirts of the capital, officials said special forces had raided the Tharthar presidential palace near Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
Documents were seized at the site north of Baghdad, said Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks at U.S. Central Command in the Persian Gulf, but no ranking members of the regime were found.
``That's all right, he added, ``there's other operations ongoing.''
To the far north, U.S. special forces and Kurdish militiamen captured the town of Bardarash and a nearby bridge, one of few routes into the city of Mosul near government-held oil fields.
Iraqis had held the town for 13 years.
In the country's southern region, British forces penetrated closer to the center of Basra, and warplanes dropped 500-pound (225-kilogram) and 1,000-pound (450-kilogram) laser-guided bombs on an Iraqi intelligence complex.
Die-hard defenders have held out for days inside the city of 1.3 million.
American officials cited continuing examples of Iraqis cooperating with invading troops.
In Najaf, they said a prominent cleric under house arrest by the Iraqi government had urged the population not to interfere with the operations of American or British forces.
A small group of Iraqi defenders has been holding out inside the city in a mosque, considered a Shiite holy site, and local clerics said one religious leader had recently arrived in hopes of arranging for their safe passage out of the shrine.
Ground forces closed in on Baghdad from separate southern approaches, the Army from the southeast and Marines from the southwest, in advances begun Tuesday night.
American and British helicopters and planes bombed positions in Kut, and Marines and Iraqis lobbed grenades at close quarters.
Between 10 and 15 Iraqis armed only with rifles charged Marine tanks in the suicide charge.
Two U.S. Marines died in the fighting -- and a medic who tried to save one of them sorrowfully buried his resuscitation equipment on the spot.
Army forces rolled past dozens of dead Iraqi soldiers and bombed-out hulks of Iraqi military equipment as they made their way toward Baghdad from the area around Karbala.
Many more Iraqi soldiers surrendered to the overwhelming force of the Americans, and were shuttled to the rear.
At the same time they worried about chemical weapons attacks, Brooks disclosed that a special operations force in the southwestern desert had found a number of bottles ``marked in strange ways.''
He said an investigation was under way.
Toyota Motor Corp. said Tuesday it will promote Akio Toyoda, a grandson of the company's founder who is widely viewed as a candidate to some day head Japan's largest automaker.
Managing director Toyoda, 46, grandson of Kiichiro Toyoda and the eldest son of Toyota honorary chairman Shoichiro Toyoda, will become one of 14 senior managing directors under a streamlined management system set to be introduced after a shareholders' meeting in June, the company said in a statement.
Toyoda, who joined Toyota, based in Toyota city, central Japan, in 1984, spearheaded the automaker's Internet and telematics business -- a technology that puts wireless communications into vehicles.
Considered a candidate for future Toyota president, Toyoda oversees its China business, a critical market for the automaker.
Toyoda has been on the star track for years.
When he joined the board in 2000, he was its youngest member.
Under a reform led by President Fujio Cho, the membership of Toyota's board of directors will be slashed to 27 from 58.
Executive vice presidents will be reduced to seven from nine.
The new system is designed to ``speed up decision-making and operations,'' Toyota spokesman Shigeru Hayakawa said.
Toyota's top posts held by Cho and Chairman Hiroshi Okuda remain unchanged.
Kiichiro Toyoda founded the automaker in 1937, transforming the loom manufacturer started by his father into an automaker.
U.S. forces tightened their grip throughout Baghdad, entering the city for the first time from the north, seizing a military airport and battling snipers and Republican Guard fighters.
Meanwhile, the U.S. military faced sharp criticism over assaults that killed three foreign journalists.
Pentagon officials said Tuesday they didn't know whether Iraqi President Saddam Hussein died in the U.S. airstrike on a Baghdad neighborhood the day before.
The strike destroyed three nearby houses and killed at least two people.
U.S. Marines battled snipers as they fought deeper into the capital from the east.
They seized the Rasheed Airport and captured enough ammunition for an estimated 3,000 troops.
Ominously, they also took a prison where they found U.S. Army uniforms and chemical weapons suits possibly belonging to American POWs.
Some army units routed Iraqi fighters from a Republican Guard headquarters inside the capital.
Others discovered a 12-room complex inside a cave, complete with white marble floors and fluorescent lighting.
Members of the U.S. Army's V Corps opened up a new front by entering Baghdad from the north.
The toll on Iraqi civilians four days after Americans first penetrated the Baghdad outskirts is unknown.
But the World Health Organization said Baghdad's hospitals were running out of supplies to treat the burns, shrapnel wounds and spinal injuries caused by the fighting.
Iraqi officials, however, remained defiant, saying Iraq's forces would never surrender to American forces: ``They will be burnt,'' said Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf.
In central Baghdad, a Reuters cameraman and a cameraman for Spain's Telecinco died when an American tank fired on the Palestine Hotel.
``The incident ... raises questions about the judgment of the advancing U.S. troops who have known all along that this hotel is the main base for almost all foreign journalists in Baghdad,'' Reuters Editor-in-Chief Geert Linnebank said.
Tareq Ayyoub, a journalist with Al-Jazeera, died when a U.S. warplane bombed the Arab-language satellite television's office.
An Abu Dhabi TV office in Baghdad also was hit.
Al-Jazeera categorically denied that its Baghdad bureau had been used by Iraqi forces to fire on U.S. troops.
U.S. Central Command said it fired on the TV office and the hotel after U.S. forces came under ``significant'' fire from those buildings.
Associated Press photographer Jerome Delay said he watched from the top floor of the hotel as American tanks took up positions on the bridge.
``All the shooting was concentrated on the bridge and across the river,'' where U.S. forces were located, he said.
It was not clear whether any Iraqi leader had been killed in the airstrike targeting Saddam in an upscale Baghdad neighborhood.
Iraqi rescue workers pulled two bodies from the rubble but said the toll could be as high as 14.
``I don't know whether he survived,'' U.S President George W. Bush said of Saddam at a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
``The only thing I know is that he's losing power.''
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Mohammed Al-Douri, said Tuesday he believes that Saddam is alive, although al-Douri acknowledged he has not communicated with Baghdad.
Bush and Blair sought to minimize their differences over who should govern and rebuild Iraq.
Blair favors a stronger U.N. role than Bush.
``There will be a vital role for the U.N. in the reconstruction of Iraq,'' Blair said.
``But the key is that Iraq in the end will be run by the Iraqi people.''
In northern Iraq, Kurdish forces tightened their ring around Kirkuk on Tuesday, following heavy coalition airstrikes on Iraqi fronts.
Kurdish militia took control of Sekamian plateau, about 10 kilometers (six miles) north of Kirkuk, Kurdish media reported.
The area affords a commanding view of the city and the vast oil fields of Iraq's No. 2 oil region.
The U.S. military said two planes had been lost.
An A-10 ``Warthog'' warplane was shot down near Baghdad, believed to be the first fixed-wing aircraft downed by an Iraqi surface-to-air missile since the war began.
U.S. Central Command said the pilot ejected, was recovered by ground forces and was in good condition.
A U.S. F-15E jet fighter also went down early Monday and a search was under way for its two-man crew, the military announced Tuesday.
Officials did not say whether the plane was shot down or crashed accidentally.
British forces in southern Iraq worked to restore order in the heavily looted streets of Basra, as desperate citizens swarmed water tanker trucks the day after British soldiers claimed Iraq's second largest city.
British forces also began establishing the country's first postwar administration Tuesday, granting a local sheik power to set up an administrative committee representing the groups in the region.
Iraq's U.N. Ambassador Mohammed Al-Douri, the first Iraqi official to concede defeat in the U.S.-led war, met privately with Secretary-General Kofi Annan, but refused to talk about rumors that he was planning to leave New York.
``I am sorry,'' he said.
``No Answer.''
``No comment at all.
This is my last word to you,'' he told hordes of journalists who chased him Thursday at his New York residence and U.N. headquarters seeking comment on his talks with the secretary-general, his future and the war.
Asked who should govern Iraq, Al-Douri said: ``I have nothing to do with that.''
Annan also declined to comment on Thursday's meeting with Al-Douri.
With the fall of Baghdad Wednesday, Al-Douri declared ``the game is over'' and expressed hope that the Iraqi people will now be able to live in peace.
He said he had not been in touch with Baghdad.
Beside meeting with Annan, Al-Douri spent several hours during the late morning and afternoon meeting with ambassadors and diplomats in the Delegate's Lounge.
``I wished him good luck but I don't know what he said to the secretary-general and what will be his next steps,'' said Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, who talked with Al-Douri before his own meeting with Annan.
In an interview with The Associated Press Wednesday night, Al-Douri said he will continue to work at the United Nations and had no intention of defecting.
``Defecting from who?'' he asked.
``I think the government has already defected.
There is no more Iraqi government to be defected from.''
Annan said early Thursday -- before meeting Al-Douri -- that in talks with the envoy Monday, ``he didn't ask for an asylum or protection ... (and) he didn't ask me for help with his status.''
``We did talk about what happens, depending on the evolution of things on the ground,'' Annan said.
The ambassador had vehemently defended his country for months as the United States and its allies sought U.N. backing for war on Iraq.
Privately, many U.N. diplomats see him as a respectable colleague.
``I sympathize with his need to create a new life for himself,'' said Britain's U.N. Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock.
Al-Douri taught international law at Baghdad University for over 30 years before becoming a diplomat in 1999, first at the United Nations in Geneva and since early 2001 at U.N. headquarters in New York.
He said in the AP interview he would love to return to teaching but for now he plans to remain at the United Nations.
``Things will be crystalized one day,'' he said.
``What I worried about is that things are settled in the country ... so in the future the Iraqi people will live in peace without sanctions, without wars, without suffering.
This is my message.''
Separately, lawyers who claim that Iraq helped plan the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people asked a judge at a federal court in New York to force Al-Douri to testify in the case and hold the envoy in contempt, saying they worry that he would flee the country.
But U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said Al-Douri still has diplomatic immunity as Iraq's ambassador.
Under U.N. rules, a new Iraqi government would have to ask to represent the country, which the General Assembly would then consider.
``He is still Iraq's ambassador at the United Nations,'' White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said in Washington.
``Legally, that is the way it works at the U.N.''
Larry Klayman, chairman of Judicial Watch, which represent 14 survivors and victims' relatives who have filed a $1.5 billion federal lawsuit against Iraq in Washington, said his organization had served a subpoena on Al-Douri twice, on March 26 and March 28, but said he has not responded.
U.S. District Judge John S. Martin did not immediately rule but scheduled a hearing for next week.
The April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah federal building was the deadliest terrorist strike on American soil at the time.
The suit claims Iraqi officials provided money and training to convicted bomber Timothy McVeigh and conspirator Terry Nichols.
McVeigh was executed in 2001, and Nichols is serving a life sentence.
The dictator Suharto has fallen, the constitution has changed, the media was unshackled, democratic elections held, and East Timor freed.
After Sept. 11, 2001, Indonesia was quick to sign onto U.S. President George W. Bush's global war on terror.
Yet, Washington maintains a 12-year ban on arms sales to the world's most populous Muslim nation with the aim of curbing human rights abuses still happening despite momentous political change.
Frustrated, Jakarta's generals are looking elsewhere to replace antiquated arsenals.
Later this month Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri travels to Moscow to seek the Kremlin's help in modernizing her increasingly obsolete 300,000-member armed forces.
She is also likely to open the way for Russian companies to vie for lucrative deals in the oil and gas sector, long dominated by American and British resource giants.
Although opposite ends of the Earth, Indonesia and Russia have some basic things in common.
Both are geographically sprawling with massive multiethnic populations.
Both are struggling to preserve national unity as they fight separatism and build democracy after the collapse of decades of authoritarian rule.
Both are resource-rich, but face huge economic problems made worse by endemic corruption.
And, currently, both have opposed the U.S.- led war on Iraq.
Indonesia's Foreign Ministry spokesman Marty Natalegawa says Megawati's meeting with Russian President Putin slated for April 21 will touch on the Iraq crisis.
But other diplomats say that issue will serve primarily to bring the two closer together on bottom-line issues such as trade and arms sales.
Analysts worry that Indonesia's military is now so degraded it can no longer control the borders of the far-flung archipelago, allowing for easy infiltration by extremists.
Last year's Bali bombings, which killed 202 people, illustrated the threat of terrorism in Indonesia.
And, broad opposition to the U.S.-led attack on Iraq threatens to lead to a backlash by militant Islamists.
``Nearly everybody in Indonesia sees this Iraq war as completely unnecessary and there is widespread public opposition to U.S. policies,'' said Jusuf Wanadi of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta.
Close ties between Moscow and Jakarta are not unprecedented.
Indonesia relied on Soviet military assistance in the 1950s under Megawati's father and founding President Sukarno, but these were severed after the anti-communist Gen. Suharto seized power in 1965.
The United States quickly became the Southeast Asian country's main weapons supplier, and annual arms sales peaked at US$400 million in the 1980s.
In 1991, however, the U.S. Congress banned this after Indonesian troops killed hundreds of civilians in East Timor.
In 1999, East Timor became free, but only after Indonesian forces laid waste to it as they withdrew after a pro-independence referendum.
The shocking level of destruction prompted U.S. lawmakers to expand the ban to cover almost all military ties with Indonesia.
Since then some in the Bush administration -- particularly Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, a former ambassador to Jakarta and a prime architect of the Iraq war -- have pushed for the ban to be repealed.
So far, U.S. lawmakers have reinstated only a limited officer training program.
But that's far from enough for Indonesia's generals.
``I think the Indonesian military has finally decided that restrictions and conditionalities from Washington are just not worth it,'' said Juwono Sudarsono, a former defense minister.
``So they want to look for alternative sources for planes, helicopters and other hardware.''
Moscow has already had some success in wooing Indonesia as a customer.
Jakarta has recently purchased some Russian weapons, including 10,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles, a squadron of naval Mil-2 helicopters and a dozen BTR-80A amphibious carriers for its marines.
Currently, Indonesia uses short-range Rapier missiles purchased 30 years ago to protect its vital oil and natural gas fields in Sumatra, Borneo and Papua from air attack.
``Replenishing them has been a big problem,'' Sudarsono said.
Air defense commanders want to augment the Rapiers with Russia's impressive long-range S-300 missiles, or shorter-range systems such as the SA-15 Gauntlet or shoulder-fired Igla.
The Air Force is reportedly considering purchasing several squadrons of Sukhoi Su-27 interceptors, considered the world's premier dogfighters.
Previously, Indonesian Air Force commanders preferred Western jets that were compatible with the U.S.-made F-16 fighter-bombers already in the Indonesian inventory.
But neighboring Malaysia's success in integrating Russian MiG-29s and American F/A-18 Hornets persuaded them otherwise, Sudarsono said.
If Megawati does stiff-arm the United States on the weapons issue, it is unlikely relations with Washington will be permanently damaged.
Whatever happens, Indonesia, a mainly Muslim but politically secular state, is natural ally in the struggle against terrorism and religious militancy.
What could be more worrying for Washington is Russia's economic ambitions.
Trade between Indonesia and Russia increased by dlrs 36.2 million to dlrs 203.5 million in 2001 -- the last year for which statistics are available.
Analysts say this can only grow.
The real concerns, though, are in the petroleum sector.
Megawati and Putin are expected to sign agreements to give Russian companies a toehold in Indonesia's oil and gas industry, long dominated by American and British giants such as Exxon Mobil and BP.
A U.S.-sponsored forum that brought Iraqi opposition leaders together to shape the country's postwar government began Tuesday with a U.S. promise not to rule Iraq and concluded with an agreement to meet again in 10 days.
Meeting in the biblical birthplace of the prophet Abraham, delegates from Iraq's many factions discussed the role of religion in the future government and ways to rebuild the country.
But some Shiite Muslim groups boycotted the meeting and thousands protested nearby.
A 13-point statement released after the meeting stressed the need to work toward a democratic Iraq built on the rule of law and equality.
It also called for dissolving Saddam's Baath Party but left open the question of separating church from the state.
Retired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who will head the U.S.-led interim administration in Iraq, opened the conference under a golden-colored tent in the shadows of the 4,000-year-old ziggurat at Ur, a terraced temple platform of the ancient Sumerians.
``What better birthday can a man have than to begin it not only where civilization began but where a free Iraq and a democratic Iraq will begin today?'' said Garner, who turned 65 Tuesday and wore a twin American and Iraqi flag pin on his blue shirt.
White House envoy Zalmay Khalilzad told delegates that the United States has ``no interest, absolutely no interest, in ruling Iraq.''
``We want you to establish your own democratic system based on Iraqi traditions and values,'' Khalilzad said.
``I urge you to take this opportunity to cooperate with each other.''
Participants included Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites from inside the country and others who spent years in exile.
U.S. officials invited the groups, which picked their own representatives.
Many Iraqis boycotted the meeting in opposition to U.S. plans to install Garner atop an interim administration.
Thousands of Shiites -- who constitute Iraq's most populous religious group but were repressed under Saddam Hussein -- demonstrated in nearby Nasiriyah, chanting ``No to America and no to Saddam!''
``Iraq needs an Iraqi interim government.
Anything other than this tramples the rights of the Iraqi people and will be a return to the era of colonization,'' said Abdul Aziz Hakim, a leader of the largest Iraqi Shiite group, the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq.
U.S. officials hope more Iraqis join the process and stressed that this was just the first of many such meetings in Iraq.
The meeting concluded with the delegates voting by show of hands to meet again in 10 days.
A national conference is planned to select the interim administration, perhaps within weeks, a senior U.S. official said on condition of anonymity.
The interim administration could begin handing power back to Iraqi officials within three to six months, but forming a government will take longer, said Maj. Gen. Tim Cross, the top British member of Garner's team.
``One has to go through the process of building from the bottom up, allowing the leadership to establish itself, and then the election process to go through and so forth,'' Cross said.
``That full electoral process may well take longer.''
Garner's Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance is charged with coordinating humanitarian assistance, rebuilding infrastructure shattered by years of war and U.N. sanctions, and gradually handing back power to Iraqis leading a democratically elected government.
Tuesday's meeting was the first step toward that goal after the ouster of Saddam.
Sheik Ayad Jamal Al Din, a Shiite religious leader from Nasiriyah, urged the delegates to craft a secular government, according to a pool report.
But Nassar Hussein Musawi, a schoolteacher, disagreed: ``Those who would like to separate religion from the state are simply dreaming,'' he said.
Iraqi exile Hatem Mukhliss quoted President John F. Kennedy's exhortation, ``Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country,'' and called on Iraqis to write a constitution, establish a legal system and consider what role the army should play.
He asked coalition representatives to address problems of security, electricity and water in Iraq and help rebuild destroyed and looted hospitals.
``Saddam reduced the country to such a state that it was necessary for people to sell off personal possessions,'' Mukhliss said.
``Now it's time to take our country back.''
There are already tensions between the United States and some Iraqi factions.
Kurdish groups appear unwilling to compromise on their demand to expand the border of their autonomous area to include the oil-rich city of Kirkuk and Kurdish parts of the city of Mosul.
That could pose a problem for the United States, because Turkey worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk could lead to aspirations for independence and in turn encourage separatist Kurds in Turkey.
Iraqi opposition leaders fear the United States is trying to force Ahmed Chalabi, head of the London-based umbrella Iraqi National Congress, on them as leader of a new Iraqi administration.
Chalabi was the first top Iraqi opposition leader to be airlifted by the U.S. military into southern Iraq as the fighting wound down, and he and other top members of his group plan to meet soon in Baghdad.
U.S. officials said Chalabi was brought in because he offered forces to the coalition.
Neither Chalabi nor many other leaders of anti-Saddam groups attended Tuesday's meeting, but they sent delegates.
Iraqis protesting the conference said it did not represent their interests.
The protesters held banners written in English and Arabic saying the ``Hawza,'' or the Shiite religious seminary in Najaf, represents them.
Even some of those at the meeting said they did not want Garner leading the interim administration.
``We will press for any Iraqi civilian administration regardless of what the Americans say.
An administration by Garner is not acceptable,'' said Mowaffak al-Rubaie, an Iraqi physician and opposition activist.
He said American officials have outlined what Garner's administration would look like: Each ministry would be headed by an American, either military or civilian.
Each minister would have two American deputies and eight American advisers, plus four Iraqi advisers from inside the country and four Iraqi exiles.
Associated Press writer Patrick McDowell in Kuwait City contributed to this report.
The lawyer for a Russian military journalist convicted of treason filed an appeal Wednesday in an effort to overturn the guilty verdict against his client, who was released on parole earlier this year, news agencies reported.
Grigory Pasko's lawyer Genri Reznik filed the appeal with Russian Supreme Court, the Interfax and ITAR-Tass news agencies reported.
He asked the court to invalidate the verdict and throw out the criminal case against Pasko, they said.
Pasko was sentenced to four years in prison in December 2001 for illegally attending a meeting of top military commanders and taking notes there.
A military court said he intended to pass the notes to Japanese media with which he had worked.
Pasko, whose sentence included time served, was released in January for good behavior after serving more than two-thirds of the sentence.
He has maintained his innocence, saying the military was punishing him for exposing environmental abuses by the Russian navy, including the dumping of radioactive waste into the sea.
Reznik said an initial appeal he lodged the day Pasko was freed never reached the presidium of the Supreme Court, according to Interfax.
The lawyer said the court's military board had refused to launch proceedings on the appeal.
Reznik said he addressed the new appeal directly to Supreme Court Chairman Vyacheslav Lebedev and asked that it not be considered by military judges ``because the military justice system has adopted a biased attitude against Pasko,'' Interfax reported.
The U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Eurasia said Tuesday that the U.S. government won't be involved in choosing subcontractors for American companies named to help rebuild Iraq.
``The way it works is that there have been an initial set of contracts let to US companies, since it's U.S. money.
Those companies can subcontract to any company they want,'' Elizabeth Jones said.
She made the statements after a meeting with the speaker of the Portuguese parliament, Joao Mota Amaral.
``The U.S. government has done what it is going to do: it has opened up the process to international companies.
We can't direct commerce,'' Jones said.
``Once it's a commercial proposition, then international bidding processes come into effect.''
Jones met with Defense Minister Paulo Portas on Tuesday and will meet Foreign Minister Antonio Martins da Cruz before leaving Portugal Wednesday.
About 50 Portuguese companies - mostly in the construction sector -- are applying for subcontracts to help rebuild Iraq, Portuguese media reported.
Many are hoping to reap benefits from Portuguese government support of the U.S.-led war to oust Saddam Hussein.
Also, Portugal hosted a last ditch pre-war summit in the Azores islands for leaders of the United States, Britain and Spain.
Rudolph Giuliani will wed his companion, Judith Nathan, on May 24 in the ex-mayor's old home, Gracie Mansion.
The news was announced Thursday by Giuliani spokeswoman Sunny Mindel.
His successor, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, will perform the ceremony.
Giuliani, 58, proposed to Nathan, a former nurse, during a November business trip to Paris -- five months after he finalized his divorce from Donna Hanover after 20 years of marriage.
In interviews last year, Giuliani said Nathan gave him ``tremendous emotional support'' through his treatment for prostate cancer and as he led the city during the aftermath of the Sept.
11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
``We were close already,'' Giuliani said.
``And then we went through hell together.''
Giuliani and Nathan began appearing in public together in May 2000.
Soon after, he announced that he and Hanover were moving toward legal separation.
During the legal proceedings leading up to the divorce, a judge ruled that Nathan could not visit Gracie Mansion, the official mayoral residence, as long as Giuliani's children lived there.
Giuliani and Hanover have two teenage children, Andrew and Caroline.
The divorce settlement called for Giuliani to pay Hanover more than $6.8 million.
Hanover, 53, is host of a syndicated television show, ``Famous Homes and Hideaways.''
Last month, she and her fiance -- an old high school sweetheart -- invited the press along as they went shopping for wedding bands, saying they are planning a wedding in the New York City area this summer.
Giuliani's first marriage to his second cousin, Regina Peruggi, lasted about 14 years.
It was annulled by the Catholic Church because the couple had not obtained a church dispensation required when second cousins marry.
Nathan divorced wallpaper salesman Bruce Nathan in 1992.
They have a teenage daughter.
The Giuliani-Nathan nuptials will be a first for Bloomberg, who is making an exception from his policy of not performing weddings, said Bloomberg spokesman Ed Skyler.
Giuliani regularly officiated at weddings while in office.
``The mayor is honored by their request,'' Skyler said.
The United States and Britain are preparing a resolution that would give the United Nations a role in humanitarian relief but not peacekeeping in Iraq, a senior official in U.S. President George W. Bush's administration said Friday.
Separately, the United States has decided to divide the military and humanitarian relief mission in Iraq into three parts under American, British and Polish command, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Six European countries have agreed to contribute troops to the British and Polish sectors to create an international stability force, the official said.
The draft resolution would limit the U.N. role to helping with refugees and displaced people, reconstruction and humanitarian assistance, the official said.
The United States and Britain agree on all but a few of the fine details of the resolution, the official said, though there is no timetable on when it would be introduced.
U.N. officials are already in Iraq providing humanitarian relief.
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said this week that the body has no interest in policing a postwar Iraq, although it could contribute to the political resuscitation of the country.
``Take the question of security.
I don't think the U.N. would want to take on that,'' Annan said.
``There has been a suggestion that the U.N. wanted to take over the whole Iraq and run it, which was also not the case.''
What the United Nations could contribute beyond humanitarian assistance was ``political facilitation,'' Annan said.
The proposed draft resolution would probably face resistance from other U.N. Security Council members who have favored a U.N.-convened conference of the kind that helped establish Afghanistan's post-Taliban government.
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld discussed the resolution with Prime Minister Tony Blair and Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon on Friday as Rumsfeld returned from a tour of Iraq, Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf region.
Rumsfeld said afterward he hoped the U.N. would play a role but did not publicly discuss the draft resolution outlining that role.
Hoon, who joined Rumsfeld in a news conference at Heathrow airport, also did not mention the draft resolution.
``We are right to be optimistic about the way forward'' in Iraq, Hoon said.
International stability forces will be sent to Iraq as soon as possible, the U.S. official said, though it was unclear when that would be.
Those troops will work to restore and maintain order and supervise humanitarian projects such as the restoration of water and electricity and delivery of food and medical aid.
The six nations contributing troops are Italy, Spain, Ukraine, Denmark, the Netherlands and Bulgaria, the official said.
Representatives of those countries will meet with British officials May 7 and Polish officials May 22 to determine what forces each country will contribute and whether they will be put under British or Polish command.
The U.S. part of the stability force will be comprised of American troops.
While that portion is likely to consist of a military division -- about 20,000 -- the troop strength of the other two sectors has yet to be determined, the official said.
The international stabilization force would be under the U.S. war commander, Gen. Tommy Franks.
At least initially, the coalition stability forces will augment rather than replace the 135,000 American troops inside Iraq, the official said.
The stability forces will focus on providing security and humanitarian relief while other U.S. troops focus on rooting out leftover members of Saddam Hussein's government and other armed elements in Iraq.
Rumsfeld said, however, that the more troops other countries contribute to the stability effort, the fewer U.S. troops will be needed inside Iraq.
Planning for both the U.N. resolution and the international security force left out France, Germany and Russia, three U.S. allies that vehemently opposed the war in Iraq.
Some of the NATO members who agreed to send troops may want NATO authorization for that action, the official said.
Requests for such authorization will be routed through the alliance's defense planning committee, which does not include France, the official said.
The outlines for the international stability force were decided at a conference Hoon hosted Wednesday with representatives from 16 countries, mostly NATO members.
Other countries including the Philippines, South Korea, Qatar and Australia agreed to send other help such as field hospitals, engineers, explosive ordnance disposal teams or nuclear, biological and chemical weapons experts.
The U.S., British and Polish sectors will be drawn to take into account ethnic, religious, tribal and political factions within Iraq, the official said.
For example, although ethnic Kurds are the majority in large parts of northern Iraq, there are also large numbers of Kurds within Baghdad.
Some Arab countries also want to play a role in the stability operation in Iraq but are reluctant to send troops because of political, religious and ethnic considerations, the official said.
Countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council have offered to donate money for the effort.
Rumsfeld also met Friday with King Abdullah of Jordan, an American ally in the Middle East.
Defense officials say Jordan provided key help in the Iraq war, acting as a staging area for U.S. special operations raids into western Iraq to prevent missiles from being fired at Jordan or Israel.
Rumsfeld did not say what the two discussed.
Police intercepted 33 African immigrants who came ashore Thursday in southern Spain aboard an overcrowded boat, including several pregnant women and other travelers suffering from hypothermia, police said.
Spanish media showed dramatic photos of police struggling to carry women on the verge of fainting after they were found wandering through Tarifa, Spain's windswept southern tip, Civil Guard officials told Spanish news agencies.
Police also arrested two Moroccan men suspected of trafficking in human beings and navigating the Zodiac boat across from Africa, Efe said.
Twenty-six of the would-be immigrants were from sub-Saharan Africa, six of them women, and the other seven were males from North African countries, police said.
Red Cross officials administered first aid on the scene, and the detainees were taken to a processing center for the government to begin expulsion proceedings.
Tens of thousands of destitute Africans try to enter Spain illegally each year by crossing the perilous Strait of Gibraltar to reach the southern mainland or by sailing northwest to the Canary Islands out in the Atlantic.
They seek a better life doing menial jobs in Spain or hope to use the country as a stepping stone to other points in Europe.
Most are caught trying to sneak in and some die in the attempt.
North Korea's military may have fired a laser at a U.S. helicopter in March, a U.S. official said Tuesday, as the communist state ditched its last legal obligation to keep itself free of nuclear weapons.
The aircraft's censors detected the unknown type of laser while it was flying near the heavily fortified frontier that divides the two Koreas, the U.S. military official said on condition of anonymity.
No one was injured and no equipment was damaged in the incident.
North Korea said Tuesday that a 1992 agreement with South Korea not to deploy nuclear arms on the Korean Peninsula was nullified, accusing the United States of derailing the deal.
``The inter-Korean declaration on denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula was thus reduced to a dead document due to the U.S. vicious hostile policy to stifle the DPRK with nukes,'' said the North's official news agency, KCNA.
DPRK stands for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the North's official name.
The announcement came as U.S. President George W. Bush and South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun were about to meet Wednesday in Washington to discuss North Korea's nuclear programs.
The accord was the last remaining legal obligation under which North Korea was banned from developing atomic arms.
In January this year, North Korea withdrew from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a global accord to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
A U.S. military official in Seoul, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday North Korea is believed to have exported US$580 million worth of missiles to Iran, Pakistan, Libya, Syria, Egypt, Yemen and the United Arab Emirates in 2001.
In December, a shipment of North Korean missiles bound for Yemen was briefly stopped in the Arabian Sea.
North Korea accuses the United States of planning to attack the communist country, which Bush has branded part of an ``axis of evil'' along with Iran and Iraq.
It also revived its claim that the U.S. military keeps many nuclear weapons in South Korea, turning the country into ``the biggest nuclear advance base in the Far East.''
Washington says it wants to use dialogue to resolve the nuclear crisis, although U.S. officials have not ruled out a military option.
North Korea ``keenly felt that the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula would only remain as a daydream unless the U.S. drops its hostile policy toward the DPRK,'' KCNA said.
It said the U.S. invasion of Iraq taught it that ``a war can be averted and the sovereignty of the country and the security of the nation can be protected only when a country has ... a strong military deterrent force capable of decisively repelling any attack to be made by any types of sophisticated weapons.''
In New York, South Korean President Roh said he will never condone North Korea's nuclear development, but Seoul and Washington agree the nuclear standoff with the North must be solved peacefully ``by all means.''
``It is incumbent upon Pyongyang to give up its nuclear project and come forward as a responsible member of the international community,'' he said.
``When the North takes this route, the Republic of Korea and the international community will extend the necessary support and cooperation.''
Julianne Lee, a Roh spokeswoman, said the North Korean statement might be a negotiating ploy in the wake of talks last month with U.S. officials in Beijing.
During the talks in Beijing, U.S. officials said North Korea claimed it already possesses nuclear weapons, and that it had reprocessed 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods -- a move that could yield several atomic bombs within months.
North Korea offered to drop its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for security guarantees and economic aid, according to U.S. officials.
The nuclear crisis flared in October, when Washington said North Korea admitted having a secret nuclear program in violation of a 1994 treaty with Washington.
Australia will keep open its embassy in Saudi Arabia despite decisions by the United States, Britain and Germany to close their diplomatic outposts in the country amid growing terror fears.
On the eve of a visit to the Saudi capital, Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said security at the Australian embassy appeared to be sufficient.
``We have quite a substantial security presence at the Australian embassy in Riyadh and the ambassador thinks that that security presence is sufficient,'' Downer told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
Australia is one of Washington's staunchest allies.
Canberra sent troops to fight in the war on terror in Afghanistan and alongside U.S. and British forces in Iraq.
New Zealand also has no immediate plans to close its Saudi embassy.
On Tuesday, Saudi security officials said three suspected al-Qaida militants were arrested in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, in sweeps following the near-simultaneous suicide attacks on three residential compounds on the outskirts of Riyadh on May 12.
The bombings killed 34 people -- including nine attackers, eight Americans and two Britons -- and wounded nearly 200 others.
Earlier this week, Saudi and U.S. officials said they had new intelligence pointing to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida group possibly launching fresh attacks in the United States or against American interests overseas.
Israeli troops shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian boy and critically injured two children, ages 7 and 9, during conflicts in the West Bank that erupted Tuesday as Israeli and Palestinian leaders moved toward talks on a new Mideast peace plan.
The shootings -- which the Israeli army said came in response to attacks by Palestinians throwing stones and molotov cocktails -- came a day after Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared that Israel's occupation in the West Bank must end, stunning both dovish opponents and hardline allies.
Sharon's remarks and Israel's conditional acceptance Sunday of the so-called ``road map'' to peace were expected to jump-start stalled Mideast peace negotiations.
A summit between Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart, Mahmoud Abbas, had been planned for Wednesday but was postponed, according to Israeli and Palestinian officials, who blamed each other for the delay.
The officials said no new date had been set; Israel Radio said the meeting would take place Thursday.
A three-way summit with U.S. President George W. Bush could take place as early as next week, possibly in Jordan.
Israeli soldiers shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian boy and wounded a 7-year-old boy after opening fire at stone throwers in the Tulkarem refugee camp in the West Bank on Tuesday, Palestinian hospital officials said.
The army said troops fired, and hit a boy, after a Palestinian youth threw a molotov cocktail.
In a village near the West Bank city of Nablus on Tuesday, Israeli troops opened fire on youths throwing stones, hitting a 9-year-old Palestinian boy in the head and critically wounding him, and hitting two 12-year-old boys in the legs, lightly wounding them, Palestinian hospital officials said.
A 10-year-old boy was struck in the leg by a rubber bullet, but was not seriously hurt, the officials said.
Military sources said troops were trying to break up stone-throwing protests, but did not use live fire.
The army was not aware of any injuries.
Five Palestinian children, a Palestinian woman and a police officer, were injured Tuesday after accidentally detonating explosives in the West Bank city of Hebron, Palestinian security officials said.
The children found the explosives in two plastic bags under a tree and accidentally detonated the first bag.
After a police officer arrived, the second bag exploded, seriously injuring him, the officials said.
Israeli troops killed a Palestinian teenager Monday and another surrendered after infiltrating from Gaza, the military said.
They were unarmed and apparently looking for work.
In a village near the West Bank town of Qalqiliya, an 11-year-old Palestinian boy was killed during an exchange of gunfire.
Also Monday, Israeli soldiers fired on four diplomatic vehicles in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun, diplomats said.
There were no injuries from the incident.
Peter Lundberg, an official from the Swedish Consulate in Jerusalem, said that two bullets hit the windshield of the Swiss Consulate's armored car, and that small-arms fire also was directed at other cars from Sweden, Denmark and the European Union.
Military sources said the Israeli army had established roadblocks at the entrance to Beit Hanoun to prevent Palestinians militants from leaving the area.
The sources said shots had been fired in the air when vehicles tried to skirt the roadblocks.
The violence erupted after Sharon endured withering criticism Monday from members of his own Likud Party over his Cabinet's acceptance of the U.S.-backed ``road map'' peace plan.
Sharon indicated a 180-degree turnaround after decades of warning that an Israeli withdrawal from even small parts of the West Bank could endanger Israel's existence.
Skeptics, however, wondered whether Sharon's conversion was a shrewd effort to deflect U.S. pressure in the hopes the road map would fail before Israel had to make tough concessions.
``To keep 3.5 million people under occupation is bad for us and them,'' Sharon said in remarks broadcast on Israel Radio.
The term ``occupation'' is anathema to the Israeli right, which believes Israel has a legitimate claim to the West Bank and Gaza Strip for religious and security reasons.
Palestinians and their dovish Israeli allies routinely use the word ``occupation'' when demanding that Israel leave the West Bank and Gaza and dismantle Jewish settlements.
Palestinians claim all of the West Bank and Gaza for a state.
On Sunday, Sharon's Cabinet conditionally approved the ``road map,'' a three-phase plan that begins with a halt to violence and envisages a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 2005.
Sharon told party critics he was committed to finding a political solution to the conflict, including an Israeli withdrawal from West Bank population centers.
``This can't continue endlessly.
Do you want to remain forever in Ramallah, Jenin, Nablus?'' he asked.
Likud lawmakers charged that the road map was slanted in favor of the Palestinians and endangers Israel.
In his remarks Monday, Sharon left himself an out.
``What will happen if Palestinian terror continues?
Nothing.
Nothing will happen.
The Palestinians will get nothing,'' he said.
Critics have said Sharon's long-held condition that all violence must stop before peace moves is unrealistic and guarantees failure of any peace initiative, including the road map, thus releasing him from the necessity of following through on his remarks.
Liberal lawmaker Yossi Sarid argued Sharon was trying to keep his intentions murky to persuade the U.S. government that he was committed to the plan, while his hawkish allies could assume he was just making a tactical move to end U.S. pressure.
``Ariel Sharon likes to walk in the fog, because then no one knows where he is headed,'' Sarid wrote in the Yediot Ahronot daily.
A retired navy officer facing life in prison over a failed effort to protect Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, told a court Thursday he felt remorse for his part in the 1999 plot.
``I have a guilty conscience,'' Andonis Naxakis said during his two-hour testimony.
Naxakis is one of 13 people on trial for bringing the fugitive guerrilla leader to Greece.
Ocalan was moved by the government to its embassy compound in Kenya, where he was captured by Turkish commandos.
The retired Greek officer said he had been trying to get Ocalan to The Netherlands, home to a large Kurdish community.
He claimed he had been manipulated by the government.
``I believe I was unwittingly used as bait for its disgraceful plan ... an organized move by the government to hand Ocalan over to Turkey,'' he said.
Naxakis and two of Ocalan's Kurdish associates are being tried on criminal charges of endangering national security.
Ocalan, being tried in absentia, was indicted for entering the country illegally, a misdemeanor.
Ocalan, leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, is serving a life sentence in Turkey for leading a 15-year insurgency against the country that left 37,000 people dead.
He is being tried in Greece in absentia.
Five of the U.S. sailors killed in the attack on the destroyer "USS Cole" are now home.
A military transport plane brought the flag-draped caskets from Germany where they were taken yesterday.
An honor guard removed them to a hangar at Dover Air Force base for a short memorial service for close family members.
They requested privacy for today's proceedings.
The bodies of two other sailors recovered from the ship are in Bahrain and will be returned later.
More than 100 FBI agents and explosives experts are expected in Yemen by the end of the weekend to investigate the suspected terrorist attack.
A team of special Naval engineers will work on recovering the bodies of ten sailors listed as missing and presumed dead.
Officials suspect a suicide bombing caused the blast, which tore a 40 foot hole in the hull of the destroyer.
Pentagon sources say an early examination finds 400 to 500 pounds of explosives may have been used.
There are no confirmed suspects yet, but officials say several Middle East groups are expected to be investigated.
The summit is coinciding with more unrest in several areas of the West Bank and Gaza strip.
Hundreds of stone-throwing Palestinians stormed the Israeli-controlled section of Hebron, breaking a curfew imposed since the outbreak of the unrest last month.
Witnesses said Israeli soldiers fired live ammunition and rubber-coated metal bullets, wounding at least seven people.
Thousands of Palestinian demonstrators marched in the area to protest against a renewal of contacts with Israel.
The nuclear submarine "Kursk" could become a permanent underwater grave for 118 Russian sailors.
Russia's top admiral says he may scrap efforts to recover the bodies if experts decide the mission would endanger deep sea divers.
All those aboard the "Kursk" were killed in August when the sub sank after being damaged by an explosion in the Barents Sea.
The cause of the disaster has not been determined.
An international salvage team is due to arrive at the scene of the accident tomorrow.
A U.S. businessman accused of spying says he has no chance of getting a fair trial in Russia.
Edmond Pope appeared in a Moscow courtroom today and read from a 40-page statement, denying charges of espionage, and protesting his treatment by the court.
Russian prosecutors say Pope tried to buy secret blueprints for a high-speed torpedo used by the Russian military.
Pope's supporters say he was seeking information on an old Russian underwater propulsion system.
President Clinton says he's willing to meet separately with Israeli and Palestinian leaders if both sides work to end the Mideast violence.
The president proposed the talks in a call to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.
Mr. Clinton says he wants to see Arafat and Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak abide by promises to end the bloodshed made at last week's emergency summit in Egypt.
A White House spokesman says Arafat is reviewing the offer.
Meanwhile, some 30,000 anti-Israeli protesters clashed with police in Jordan.
Demonstrators from across the country traveled to a west bank border town to call for the return of Palestinian refugees.
The number of police and protesters who were injured is still not known.
A note from a doomed sailor raises new questions about Russian efforts to save the crew of the submarine "Kursk."
The note was found in the pocket of a sailor whose body was recovered yesterday.
It was written after explosions sent the "Kursk" to the bottom of the sea.
It confirms 23 sailors survived.
For days, teams tried without success to open the escape hatch.
It was pried open by divers from Norway who found no one left alive.
Relatives have complained some sailors might have been rescued had Russia sought help immediately.
The widow of the sailor who wrote the note wept today as she was interviewed on Russian television.
I came here after I heard the official announcement on TV.
I love him very much.
I want to see him and I want to read his letter.
While the cause of the "Kursk" disaster remains unknown, Russian officials say the sub may have collided with a World War II mine or there may have been an internal malfunction.
Former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres is expected to meet soon with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in an attempt to quell Mideast violence.
The meeting comes amid fresh clashes between the two sides.
Fighting broke out in Ramallah, Hebron and at the border crossings between Israel and Gaza today.
Three Palestinians were killed, at least 49 people wounded.
Overnight, Israeli gunships attacked three headquarters of Fatah, the political party allied with Arafat.
Israel calls it a response to Palestinian guerrilla warfare.
Arafat is condemning the attacks.
A verdict handed down three years ago today brought debate from both sides of the Atlantic.
In this edition of "Headliners," Bob Glascoff has the story of British au pair Louise Woodward and finds out what she's doing now.
October 1997.
Louise Woodward is sentenced to life in prison on charges she murdered an infant boy.
Woodward, then a 19-year-old au pair from Britain, was accused of killing 8-month-old Matthew Eappen by shaking him and slamming his head.
The case attracted widespread attention in England, where many thought she was innocent.
Woodward had been living with the Eappen family taking care of their two young sons.
Despite receiving a life sentence, her charges were reduced two weeks later from second-degree murder to manslaughter.
She was sentenced to time served and released.
Woodward returned to Britain in 1998 to another controversy.
Her parents were accused of defrauding her defense fund.
They went on trial this year and were acquitted.
Today, Woodward is studying to be a lawyer.
With "Headliners," I'm Bob Glascoff.
An Oregon girl missing for 15 years has been reunited with her family.
The mother says her daughter was taken by her baby-sitter when she was just 3 years old.
The alleged abduction of Fallon Marie Hodges was never reported to police.
Authorities say the girl contacted law enforcement in Nevada last Friday saying she needed help in finding her identity.
She says she was abandoned by her surrogate parents, one of whom was her alleged kidnapper.
The name Father Frost may not be familiar to you, but to Russian children, Christmas wouldn't be the same without him.
Denise Dillon reports.
Santa Claus visited the northern Russian city of Veliki Ustyug to meet with his Russian counterpart, Father Frost.
It's believed Veliki Ustyug, which is about 600 miles north of Moscow, is the hometown of Father Frost, one of the main characters of Russian Christmas stories.
The 50,000 residents here have a deep respect for the history of their town, and it seemed as though all of them bundled up against the cold and came out to welcome Santa and Father Frost as they rode into the town's central square on a horse-drawn carriage.
People who live here hope this is the beginning of a long tradition that others around the world will celebrate with them.
A new great holiday came to our town.
This is how new traditions are generated.
And I hope this holiday will become nationwide soon.
As for us, we are always happy to see guests in our town.
When Santa arrived, the temperature was 16 degrees below 0, but that did not stop the Russian folk singers and dancers from performing traditional dances.
Later, Santa visited Father Frost's home, where they met with all the good little boys and girls.
When you believe in Santa Claus, then you are good people and good children.
Then your dreams can come true.
Children around the world believe that Santa Claus or Father Frost will bring them good luck, and presents, for the holidays.
Denise Dillon, "Headline News."
A woman whose husband was killed in last month's crash of a Singapore Airlines plane has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the carrier.
Investigators say the Boeing 747 hit a barrier and a crane on the runway and exploded during takeoff.
82 people were killed.
The lawsuit filed in Federal court says negligence and reckless misconduct contributed to the crash.
A spokesman for Singapore Airlines declined to comment.
The Navy now says it will cost about $240 million to get the "USS Cole" up and running again.
Officials originally estimated it would cost $150 million to repair the gaping hole in the ship's midsection.
But a Naval official says that does not include the cost of replacing equipment and weapons damaged in the attack carried out by suicide bombers in Yemen.
The ship is scheduled to arrive in Mississippi in about ten days.
Russia's Presidential Clemency Commission is advising president Vladimir Putin to release convicted American spy Edmund Pope on humanitarian grounds.
A top Putin aide says Pope could be home by Christmas.
However, according to Russian law, Putin cannot issue a pardon any earlier than December.
Pope was convicted of espionage Wednesday in Moscow and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
He suffers from a rare form of bone cancer and has asked Putin to let him return to the U.S. to receive medical care.
Ousted Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is heading to exile in Saudi Arabia.
He left Pakistan yesterday, after being pardoned by the president.
Sharif had been in jail since his ouster in a military coup last year.
He was convicted of kidnapping and corruption.
Saudi Arabia offered to accept Sharif and more than a dozen members of his family on humanitarian grounds.
Will winter storms affect the weather where you are?
Let's check the "Headline News" extended forecast.
Another round of winter weather is expected today as another major winter storm will be spreading from the southern plains through the Ohio River valley and eventually into the Northeast.
Cities like Springfield, Missouri, back towards St. Louis and Indianapolis and Columbus will pick up the heaviest snowfall.
Over six inches is expected by tomorrow morning, and then moving in towards the northeast, where we expect even some ice in some of the suburbs to the northwestern areas of New York City.
Here's a look at the forecast weather map -- slow pressure is moving in towards the Ohio River valley and eventually into the northeast by late tomorrow.
It's moving rather quickly, too, so the precipitation will be ending through the Midwest as high pressure builds in tomorrow.
Look for the snow to continue into New England tomorrow.
Friday, rain into the southeast.
There will be some showers in the Northwest.
Temperature-wise, it remains cold over the northern tier.
It begins to warm up over parts of the south.
A wet day on Saturday over much of the East and Southeast.
There'll be some snows, though, back into the Midwest.
Forecast highs are still on the cold side.
And as we check out Sunday's weather, snow through the great lakes and rain into the Northeast with forecast highs mainly in the over the northeastern U.S.
I'm meteorologist Dave Hennen.
For more weather information, login to cnn.com.
The damaged "USS Cole" comes home today.
It's due to arrive in Pascagoula, Mississippi, this morning.
The destroyer was christened there five years ago.
Repairs are expected to cost about $240 million.
Yemeni and U.S. authorities are still investigating the October bombing.
17 sailors were killed.
Yemen's Prime Minister says at least three Yemenis will go on trial next month in connection with the attack.
They're suspected of belonging to an international terrorist network.
Edmund Pope, the U.S. businessman convicted of espionage in Russia, is offering the first details of his eight-month stay in a Moscow prison.
Speaking from a U.S. military hospital in Germany, Pope says he was treated well by prison guards, but suffered from mental anguish and depression.
Today, Pope is undergoing an extensive medical checkup, to see if there is any recurrence of bone cancer.
He's undergoing tests for skin cancer as well.
He will wait for the results before returning home to the U.S.
Pope was pardoned yesterday by Russian president Vladimir Putin.
U.S. and Yemeni officials have released a photo of one of the suicide bombers killed in the attack on the "USS Cole" in the port of Aden October.
17 U.S. sailors were killed and 39 others hurt.
The officials say Yemeni national Hussan Saeed Awad Al-Khamri was described by a boy as having launched the boat used in the attack.
Six possible suspects are still being held in Yemen pending a trial that could start as early as next month.
Investigators say they're still looking for other key suspects.
Many people in North America will be able to experience a partial solar eclipse tomorrow.
But scientists say it won't block much Christmas sunlight in most places.
As always, eclipse fans are being warned not to look directly at the Sun because that can cause permanent eye damage.
The eclipse will occur at around 12 P.M. Eastern Time.
The best view will be in the Northeast.
Welcome all to my new site.
I've decided to incorporate my old work blog into a general blog, the work diary is up on the right titled "my work diary".
EFF YEAH!
BUSH WON!
OK then.
My next thought.
The world is a much better place now that the terrorist Yassar Arafat is dead.
Here is a good one minute video on his great legacy Here.
This guy was one of the early innovators of terrorism in this century and he is protrayed by the Main Stream Media (MSM for short) as a "freedom fighter".
Because of him millions of palestinians chose "jihad" over peace with Isreal.
He innovated suicide bombers and plane hijacking plus he embezzelled hundreds of millions of dollars from aid funds.
...and this guy got a nobel peace prize, what a disgrace.
UPDATE 1 - Drudge is reporting that Arafat has been skimming 2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territories.
MAG: Arafat Skimmed $2 Million a Month From the Gas Trade Sun Nov 14 2004 09:53:40 ETNew York.
-- Last year auditors discovered Arafat was guilty of skimming $2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territories, TIME reports.
In August 2002 international donors forced Arafat to sign over his investments to the Palestine Investment Fund, which was audited by U.S. accountants and managed by Palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayyad, a former International Monetary Fund official.
After scouring corporations throughout the Arab world and bank accounts in the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg, the auditors identified $800 million, which has been made a part of the Palestinian Authority's official budget.
It's the most successful financial reform in the Arab world, -- Jim Prince, president of the Los Angeles-based Democracy Council and head of the audit team, tells TIME.
People close to Fayyad's investigation told TIME of Arafat's skimming from the gas trade.
Breaking the gasoline smuggling and corruption boosted the Palestinian Authority's official treasury by $10 million a month and cut gas prices for ordinary Palestinians.
"Arafat's death means his followers may never know just how much more they may be owed, "writes TIME's Matt Rees in "Where's Arafat's Money?"
In the mid-1990s, Arafat controlled a financial empire worth at least $3 billion.
By the time of his death, he was down to his last $1 billion, according to Israeli-intelligence estimates.
Arafat wife Suha's outburst that his successors were "trying to bury [him] alive" came after she learned that Arafat had signed over at least $800 million to the government of the Palestinian Authority two years ago, TIME reports.
Top Palestinian officials say Suha wants the new chief of the P.L.O., Mahmoud Abbas, and Palestinian prime minister Ahmed Qurei to give her money out of the P.L.O.'s party coffers.
But a senior P.L.O. official tells TIME, "they'll pay her a pension, and that's it."
People familiar with Arafat's finances say the Palestinian leader sent Suha $200,000 a month out of the Palestinian Authority's budget for the Office of the President.
French authorities are investigating transfers of $15 million from Swiss banks to Paris accounts in Suha's name at the Arab Bank and at BNP Paribas Bank, a French bank, TIME reports.
Senior Palestinian security officials tell TIME that Arafat also shipped money to the gunmen of the Aqsa Martyrs Brigades.
Developing.
.. Sure sounds like a Nobel Prize winner to me.
Time is reporting today that a al-Qaeda operative was captured and is spitting out that they have plans in the work to smuggle nukes into the US from Mexico, see the article here.
Thank god Bush is still our president, although I strongly disagree with him on his new immigration policy.
This policy would just make it easier for the enemy to get within our borders.
Just reported from AP that Condi Rice has been chosen by President Bush to become the new Secretary of State for his second term.
I agree with his choice and think she will make a much better Secretary then Powell did.
Her views are much more in step with the President then Powell, although he was a true soldier and carried the message.
Plus, any lady who works out to Led Zeppelin and is a Football nut is alright in my book.
Thanks to Captain Ed for bringing this up.
Apparently James Baker, former Secretary of State and current envoy for the Bush Administration, has asked the Isreali government to release a scumbag terrorist to promote "peace".
There is now ... in an Israeli prison a man named Marwan Barghouti, who is one of the young guard of Palestinians, and if the Palestinians are going to make this work against the really hard-line elements, the Islamists and some of the people of Hamas, they're going to have to have a coalition of the young guard and the old guard.
Gotta say that this shocked me, I've always thought Mr. Baker was a upstanding guy but this is just plain good old fashioned bullcrap.
Here are some of the fine achievements of the terrorist Marwan Barghouti Marwan Barghouti (born June 6, 1958) is a Palestinian leader from the West Bank and a leader of the Fatah movement that forms the backbone of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO).
On June 6, 2004, he was sentenced to five life sentences for five murders of Israeli civilians and 40 years imprisonment for attempted murders in terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians.
Barghouti was one of the major leaders of the First Intifada in 1987, leading Palestinians in a mass uprising against Israeli occupation of the West Bank.
During the uprising, he was arrested by Israel and deported to Jordan, where he stayed for seven years until he was permitted to return under the terms of the Oslo Accords in 1994.
In 1996, he was elected to the Palestinian Legislative Council, in which he advocated peace with Israel, sometimes coming in conflict with Yasser Arafat.
The formal position occupied by Barghouti was the General Secretary of Fatah in the West Bank.
By the summer of 2000, Barghouti and Arafat had grown increasingly at odds with each other, with Barghouti accusing Arafat's administration of corruption and his security services of human rights violations, and Arafat was planning to fire him shortly.
However, as the Second Intifada began, Barghouti became increasingly popular as a leader of the Fatah Tanzim militia.
This was perhaps due to the transformation of Tanzim into an organization more resembling militant groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, responsible for dozens of civilian deaths in drive-by shootings.
Under Barghouti, the Tanzim has also carried out suicide bombings in Israel under the name al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades.
What is he thinking?
Release a known terrorist to run the PLO and that will bring about peace, give me a effin break.
Chris Matthews, that idiot talking head over at MSNBC, said yesterday about the terrorists we fought in Fallujah "a rival, I mean they're not bad guys especially, just people who just disagree with us".
...this just amazes me, the complete idiocy of this waste of human sperm.
These are the same terrorists blowing up families, chopping off heads of civilians, and the complete disregard for any human life and they just disagree with us?
Tell that to the family of Margaret Hassan, the school teacher who was brutally tortured and then slaughtered by these same guys, they ain't so bad are they Chris Matthews?
This women who was known for her 30 years of work in Iraq, distributing medicine, food and supplies to Iraqis suffering under the sanctions of the 1990s.
British officials say they believe Hassan was a blindfolded woman seen being shot in the head by a hooded militant on a video obtained but not aired by the Arab television station Al-Jazeera.
She would be the first foreign woman to die in the wave of kidnappings in Iraq.
No group has claimed responsibility.
On Sunday, Marines found the mutilated body of what they believe was a Western woman on a street in Fallujah during the U.S. assault on the insurgent stronghold.
The body, clothed in what appeared to be a purple, velour dress, was wrapped in a blanket, with a blood-soaked black cloth nearby.
As of Tuesday night, the U.S. command said the body had not been identified.
These are the reasons that none of these mothereffers should ever see the light of day.
..they need to be all lined up and shot.
Torturing this poor women for what?
WHAT?
And we should treat them as enemy soldiers under the Geneva Convention.
Last I remember the convention applies to countries that signed the document and the two countries must have standing armies with uniforms.
...the Iraqi military is at our side, the terrorists are not.
Since when are terrorists soldiers?
They are lower then dogs.
Finally there is this written by a student of Mrs. Hassan She was my English teacher.
In the memory of my teacher and a fellow aid worker colleague Mrs. M. Hassan.
Mrs. Hassan was my English teacher in The British Council in Baghdad in Al-Wazirya district, I remember her years ago with her Irish accent telling me it's not Important how many words I must learn but the pronunciation of the words I already knew must be perfected.
Mrs. Hassan speak s perfect Arabic and she has a heart of gold, she's been killed by (men in pajamas), turn Iraq upside down and find them.
The Marines will find them, and when they do they shall die.
2Slick pointed me to a article at In Iraq For 365.
This is a great blog and I encourage you all to read it regularly.
On Sunday he wrote of two Iraqi soldiers who didn't see us as conquerors but as allies when the Mosul bombing occurred.
The suicide bomb sprayed bb-like fragments throughout the Marez dining facility.
One piece of shrapnel sliced through the femoral artery of a U.S. soldier and his only chance for survival was in the hands of these two Iraqis.
Recalling the medical classes they'd received from the special forces, the Iraqis reacted calmly, fastening a belt above the wound, creating a tourniquet, which stopped the gushing stream of red.
They moved the soldier to a MEDVAC vehicle via two-man litter carry.
After they hoisted the soldier in the truck, the two Iraqis -- one an officer, the other an NCO -- ran back to the facility and began treating the other wounded without regard for their safety.
When the dust settled and the mess tent had been evacuated, everybody who could talk was questioned about their health.
When the medics came to the two Iraqis, the ING soldiers only wanted to know how everybody else was.
When asked why did they do it, they simply stated, "this was our duty; we are a team, and we take care of each other."
Even the Americans.
No matter what the MSM tries to tell you, there are Iraqi's who will help the allies, who will fight alongside them and put their lives at risk to make sure Democracy succeeds in their country.
This brings to mind a speech Prime Minister Tony Blair gave recently while visiting Iraq.
When I meet the people working alongside the United Nations--Iraqis in fear of their life every day, because they are trying to bring freedom and democracy to their people--when I see their courage and their determination and know that they speak for the vast majority of people in Iraq who want that democracy and freedom, then I know that we are doing the right thing.
And I will also say this to you: There are people dying in Iraq, but the reason people are dying is because of the terrorism and the intimidation and the people who are deliberately killing anyone trying to make this country better.
Now what should our response be as an international community?
Our response should be to stand alongside the democrats--the people who've got the courage to see this thing through--and help them see it through.
I've got no doubt at all that that is the right thing for us to do.
Sometimes when I see some of the reporting of what's happening in Iraq in the rest of the world, I just feel that people should understand how precious what has been created here is.
And those people from that electoral commission that I described as the heroes of the new Iraq--every day ... a lot of them aren't living in the Green Zone, they've got to travel in from outside.
They do not know at any point in time whether they're going to be subject to brutality or intimidation, even death, and yet they carry on doing it.
Now what a magnificent example of the human spirit--that's the side we should be on.
This recent news story is troubling in many different ways.
When I first heard of the story I figured it was some wackjob playing with a new toy but now we find out there have been 7 incidents since Christmas from the West to East coast.
The FBI, concerned that terrorists could use lasers as weapons, is investigating why laser beams were directed into the cockpits of seven airplanes in flight since Christmas.
Laser beams can temporarily blind or disorient pilots and possibly cause a plane to crash.
The FBI is looking into two incidents in Colorado Springs, Colo., and one each in Cleveland, Washington, Houston, Teterboro, N.J., and Medford, Ore., according to federal and local law enforcement and transportation officials, some of whom spoke only on condition of anonymity.
A federal law enforcement official, who declined to be identified by name, said Thursday there is no evidence of a plot or terrorist activity.
But pilots are troubled by the incidents, and the FBI earlier this month warned of the possibility that terrorists might use the devices as weapons.
"It's not some kid," said Paul Rancatore, a pilot who serves as deputy chairman of the security committee for the Allied Pilots Association.
"It's too organized."
Loren Thompson, who teaches military technology at Georgetown University, called it a "rather worrisome development," though he said experts would be more puzzled than alarmed.
"What we're talking about is a fairly powerful visible light laser that has the ability to lock onto a fast-moving aircraft," Thompson said.
"That's not the sort of thing you pick up at a military surplus store."
Thompson said a piece of equipment that could do the things the FBI suspects would be "fairly expensive and fairly sophisticated."
"It sounds like an organized effort to cause airline accidents," Thompson said.
Michelle Malkin has a post about this today where some outlets have stopped selling lasers.
Lots of people think that these indeed might be loonies playing with new Christmas toys but I disagree.
These are incidents where the Airplanes were tracked , some as high as 8500 feet.
To track a fast moving plane at that altitude would not be some toy you can get from the local wal-mart.
In my opinion this is quite alarming.
This Isn't Writing, It's Typing has a great post out with a ton of info, some of it quite scary A more frightening scenario is that terrorists may have obtained a Chinese-produced ZM-87 laser blinder which is specifically designed to blind eyesight.
The Japanese terrorist cult Aum Shinrikyo--which launched the infamous Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway system in 1995--was discovered to have experimented with the use of lasers as weapons.
According to The Asian Pacific Post, "Cult members apparently obtained laser design information from Russian institutes they visited and built a laser weapon mounted on a truck.
They had planned to use the laser against Tokyo policemen, but the plan failed when the laser malfunctioned during the testing stage."
PoliticAlex also has some info on this story also.
I found the following report that was presented to Congress recently about the shoulder launched missle threat to airliners, which this might very well be a precursor to: Recent events have focused attention on the threat that terrorists with shoulder fired surface-to-air missiles (SAMs), referred to as Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), pose to commercial airliners.
Most believe that no single solution exists to effectively mitigate this threat.
Instead, a menu of options may be considered, including installing infrared (IR) countermeasures on aircraft; modifying flight operations and air traffic control procedures; improving airport and regional security; and strengthening missile non-proliferation efforts.
Equipping aircraft with missile countermeasure systems can protect the aircraft even when operating in areas where ground-based security measures are unavailable or infeasible to implement.
However, this option has a relatively high cost, between $1 million and $3 million per aircraft, and the time needed for implementation does not allow for immediate response to the existing terrorist threat.
Procedural improvements such as specific flight crew training, altering air traffic procedures to minimize exposure to the threat, and improved security near airports may be less costly than countermeasures and could more immediately help deter domestic terrorist attacks.
However, these techniques by themselves cannot completely mitigate the risk of domestic attacks and would not protect U.S. airliners flying to and from foreign airports.
Legislation introduced in the 108th Congress (H.R. 580, S. 311) calls for the installation of missile defense systems in all turbojet aircraft used in scheduled air carrier service.
While this legislation is still under consideration, Homeland Security appropriations designated $60 million in FY2004 and $61 million in FY2005 to fund a program to develop and test prototype missile countermeasure systems for commercial aircraft based on existing military technology.
It is anticipated that at the conclusion of this program, in January 2006, the Department of Homeland Security will be able to provide a detailed analysis of the suitability of such systems for use to protect commercial passenger aircraft.
American Future has a link up to a article written in yesterdays Houston Chronicle.
It describes how the European Governments look to be changing their tune in regards to President Bush.
Why you ask?
But there is arguably more to this sea change than just a grumpy acceptance of the status quo.
From a European perspective, three things are making it easier to warm to the Bush White House.
One is the death of Yasser Arafat.
No issue divides Europe and the United States more keenly than the Israeli-Palestinian dispute.
For the last few years, Europeans have criticized Bush for failing to put enough pressure on Israel to get out of the occupied territories and for refusing to deal with Arafat.
That another reason why I respect Bush so much, his refusal to acknowledge that windbag terrorist Arafat.
May he rot in hell.
But since Arafat's death, Europeans and Americans have been able to find common ground: supporting Ariel Sharon's withdrawal from Gaza, putting pressure on Israel to let the Palestinians hold elections and, covertly, backing Mahmoud Abbas to become the next Palestinian leader.
A second reason is Europe's growing worries about Islamic terrorism.
The murder in November of Theo van Gogh, a provocative Dutch filmmaker, at the hands of an Islamic militant has been called Europe's 9/11.
Though the two events are obviously not fully comparable, it is certainly true that American conservatives, such as Francis Fukuyama and Bernard Lewis, have found a wider audience recently for the idea that radical Islam is inimical to European traditions of tolerance.
You mean those radical muslims can be kinda nasty sometimes?
Get outta here.
...Keep doing business like the cowards in Spain and they will more then likely have their very own 9/11 to cry about.
The third force is the reappearance, albeit in a milder form, of the threat that kept the trans-Atlantic alliance together for half a century.
The Russian bear is growling again.
The Ukrainian election --- complete with its KGB-style poisoning of the opposition leader and heavy-handed electoral fraud -- has reminded European diplomats of Vladimir V. Putin's determination to control his "near abroad."
They should be very worried about this item, I believe Putin is slowly sliding Russia back to what it once was.
Hopefully our Government isn't asleep at the wheel with this situation either.
There is a personal edge to all this.
Just as the snooty continentals eventually came to admire the gormless Hollywood actor, there is a grudging willingness to rethink some prejudices about the inarticulate Texan.
Many European leaders once swallowed the Michael Moore version of history: that Bush was an ignorant interloper who stole the White House.
His thumping re-election, however, shows that he represents a large body of conservative American opinion.
In short, Europeans are getting used to the idea that it is not Bush who is the exception, but the U.S. itself that is exceptional --- and that if they want to deal with this exceptional superpower they need to humor it rather than rile it.
Strangely enough, this has been Tony Blair's strategy all along; it is rapidly becoming the Continent's strategy, too.
Couldn't of ended that article any better myself.
Get used to it France, we ain't going nowhere.
Nicolae Mischie, authoritarian leader of a district organization of the main opposition party, has been jailed.
Romania voted in the last December, ousting the so-called socialist party PSD (Social-Democratic Party).
PSD managed to keep a stronghold in poor rural areas, with the help of people like Mischie.
They combined blackmail, using their right of decision regarding the public funds for local leaders opposing PSD, and strong seduction of the uneducated masses, in a marvelous way.
E.g., Mischie, who talks like an idiot, got a PhD in history.
His paper was on a political personality of the 19th century and Mischie bought the house where his paper's subject lived.
Maybe he tried to invest in his paper, maybe he believed sincerely in his admiration for the poor innocent dead guy and his ability of earning PhDs, but using a big car and living in a big house are signs for the masses that the man is an invaluable and irreplaceable leader.
Another misleading sign was his position as a University professor - he was teaching mostly at private universities, which are still ways to buy diplomas here in Romania.
Local leaders did their jobs, but national leaders, pressuring TV stations to lie, associating with old communist ex-president Ion Iliescu, failed to win in big cities.
PSD is building a strategy for the 4 years to come and they are going to elect a leader.
It is known that communist leaders die in office (as judges of the U.S. Supreme Court) and Ion Iliescu won't be different.
All the leaders that expressed different points of view will be excluded from the party, that's the untold truth that Romanian media seem to hide or not conceive yet.
Mischie was right to criticize the national leaders, because PSD got a good share in the elections in his area.
But Mischie was wrong, because he did that while in vacation in Switzerland, where you can't go if you earn 20K $ a year.
The new power had nothing to do, but let the policemen do what they should be doing years ago.
Iliescu and Nastase, ex-president and ex-prime minister, are now left only with the leadership of the party and holding this illusory authority.
If Mischie wouldn't take his chance on them, he would still be free, with the help of the weak and weakening strings Iliescu might still pull.
The interim government declared a state of emergency in Iraq excluding the Kurdish region for 60 days, according to the National Security Law introduced last August which states that emergency laws can be declared in the country for a period no more than 60 days provided a serious threat against Iraqi national security is recognised by the interim government.
Obviously, this is a necessary step that should have been taken at least two months ago.
Suicide bombings and guerrilla attacks carried out by insurgents and foreign terrorists based around Baghdad have escalated to alarming levels particularly during Ramadan.
Deputy governor of Diyala along with several council members from Ba'quba were ambushed and killed in Latifiya south of Baghdad, an area which has supposedly been 'cleared' from insurgents a couple of weeks ago.
Four suicide attacks in Samarra, also a recently 'liberated' area, against National Guard units and the governorate building.
Zarqawi's group claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Three police stations in Haditha, a small town west of Ramadi, were assaulted by groups of insurgents.
Some 30 policemen were captured, tied up and executed in cold blood against the walls following a confrontation which lasted two hours.
Zarqawi's group, again, claiming responsibility.
A full-scale military operation against Fallujah, which is apparently underway already, seems to be the government's 'final solution'.
I'm not optimistic to the outcome, especially when significant civilian casualties are unavoidable.
Note, that I'm not suggesting a peaceful or political solution would work either in these areas.
Insurgents west of Baghdad have quite obstinately made it clear that nothing but full control of the country, or at least the Anbar governorate, will satisfy them.
They have refused to participate in the political process, they have repeatedly announced their intentions to boycott the elections and to disrupt them in other areas, and they do not recognise the government or any other authority in the country beside themselves.
The demands of the Fallujah negotiants from the government weeks ago were obscene and they clearly reflect the overt sectarianism and regionalism of the armed groups in the area.
The demands were not released to the Iraqi public at the time for unkown reasons but they have leaked out days ago.
Here are just a few of them:
-A clear timetable for the withdrawal of foreign occupation forces.
(fair enough).
-Immediate withdrawal of US and Iraqi security forces from the Anbar governorate and the handover of security responsibilities to former army officers from Anbar.
-The appointment of ministers from the Anbar governorate to the ministries of Interior, Defense, Oil and Finance.
-The removal of certain officials (most of them from Shi'ite Islamic parties such as Ibrahim Al-Ja'fari) from governmental positions.
-The complete return of Ba'athists, army officers, Republican Guards, Mukhabarat, intelligence and security personnel to their former positions.
-The removal of Shi'ite Edhan (call for prayers) from official television and radio programs.
-Incomes of Shi'ite sacred shrines should be returned under the control of the Ministry of Endowments and Religious Affairs.
These last two demands have been allegedly added by Sheikh Harith Al-Dhari (head of the Association of Muslim Scholars) and are said to have been a major reason behind the failure of negotiations with the government.
Iraqis here in the south were shocked to hear of these demands and sectarian tensions are on the rise.
It scares me to see the reaction of people around me whenever Fallujah is mentioned.
The director of a primary health care clinic was remarking the other day that "Fallujah should be burnt upon its residents and then razed to the ground.
They are the sons of Mu'awiya, may Allah curse them all."
Sidenote: Mu'awiya bin Abi Sufyan was the governor of Syria during the 7th century and he fought Imam Ali bin Abi Talib (Muhammed's son-in-law) over the Caliphate after the assassination of Caliph Othman.
He became the first Ummayid Caliph and two decades later, under the Caliphate of his son Yazid, Imam Hussein bin Ali (grandson of Muhammed) was killed by his armies at present day Karbala.
Someone hushed the director and pointed out to him that I'm Sunni.
He was a bit embarrassed and tried to explain that he was referring to Wahhabis and foreign fighters.
It was a bit uncomfortable and I could feel that people were giving me furtive glances.
Refugees have been pouring out of Fallujah over the last few days into Baghdad and the surrounding areas.
The military operation will undoubtly aggravate the humanitarian situation inside the city since there are definitely thousands of families with no place to go.
Refugees in Baghdad have confirmed the rumours that the 'Mujahideen' are forcing men from 15-50 years old to stay and that they were threatened with execution if they refuse to carry arms in defense of the town.
Majlis Shura Al-Mujahideen (The Mujahideen Advisory Council) are in control of Fallujah and they have distributed a statement inviting Arab and foreign (including American) media reporters to enter the town and cover the battles.
The statement carried the insignia of Zarqawi's group Qa'idat Al-Jihad.
Everyone is closely watching what the next few days will bring, hoping the violence doesn't spread to the streets of Baghdad or other areas.
I'm still holed up in Basrah but I'll try to be on the road as soon as possible.
Gazprom, the main Russian gas company, has been denied a $10 billion credit line due to the political situation in Russia.
The company intended to use the cash to pay an artificially low price for Yukos assets (hence that firm's bankruptcy filing a few days ago -- you know it's bad when you have to use US courts to protect your own assets from appropriation by your home country).
It's starting to look like Putin's goal is a sort of judicial nationalization -- taking control of key assets through court, rather than executive, fiat.
But the markets have caught on, and Russia may be deprived of the capital it needs to grow.
Don't expect any of the Russian leadership to reverse course; given the current trends there, they'll just Blame the West when their screwy plan screws them over.
One of the rules of thumb that has guided my (limited) business career from the beginning is that China is never as lucrative as it looks.
This assumption is based on about 150 years of economic history, including several booms in interest and investment in China.
Their biggest problem: There's usually a 200-to-1 ratio of Nearly Starving Peasant Laborers to Absurdly Well-Off Government Employees.
And now it's an iffier 100-to-1, since there are also rich private sector employees and the labor force isn't quite so expendable.
What they've been missing for years was the real driver behind any consumer economy: Consumers.
Specifically, they didn't have a real middle class.
That's changed in the last twenty years, as increasing social mobility and a burst in foreign demand has finally made China a genuine, rather than theoretical, contender.
And they've even supplied proof of their economic viability, announcing that they've beaten Japan for exports to the US.
If only I'd figured this out in early 2002, when their stock market was by some stretch of the imagination cheap.
I dunno if you want anything to do with their stock market.
For one, its perforance last year was pretty dismal.
More importantly, its a structural nuthouse.
Unfortunately, minority shareholder rights are virtually non-existent, and excluding the dodgy financial statements listed on the exchange, lots of times companies are more interested in generating cash from an IPO then actually bothering with shareholder value.
This Economist article (not sure if registration is required, sorry):
http://www.economist.com/displaystory.cfm?story_id=1447832
http://www.economist.com/displaystory.cfm?story_id=1447832
Finally, the Shanghai Composite on July, 1997 was trading at 1189.76.
As of January 27, 2005 it's sitting at 1225.89.
That's an annualized return of roughly 0.4%.
The 5 year return is even worse (http://finance.yahoo.com/q/bc?s=^SSEC&amp;t=5y).
You haven't missed much :).
Apparently Yuganskneftegaz, which was sold to an independent buyer who turned out to be an apparatus of the state (yes, the same state that 1) forced Yukos to do the auction, and 2) ran the auction, not that 3) this is suspicious or anything), and which was then being bought with foreign assistance, is not being bought with foreign assistance.
As of this morning, at least.
Anyway, it looks like they're denying Chinese involvement to avoid a lawsuit , which is funny -- you'd think they might know someone in the Russian judiciary who could help them out.
Apparently Carly made a lot of journalistic enemies during her six hears at HP.
Not only was the catalyst for her fall from grace a Fortune article by Carol Loomis (who as far as I know is immortal -- she's been writing for Fortune since 1954), but the anti-Carly brigades are out in full force at Salon.com.
This is getting a little harsh; she might have messed up at HP (I refuse to call it by the new name, for now), but she wasn't actively trying to destroy a great company and wreck the shareholders.
It just, well, happened.
So, right, Carly was a bad manager, and she eventually got what she deserved, but she isn't evil incarnate.
I was hoping for another incredibly drawn-out story, full of antitrust drama, lurking potential bidders, and contentious confrontations between executives.
And then MCI just sort of accepted a Verizon deal without really bothering anybody.
Clearly, their corporate culture has suffered -- 25 years ago, MCI was the brawling upstart in the telecom industry, constantly challenging AT&T's right to exist, much less to monopolize the phone system.
And now, they're swallowed by Just Another Monolith.
I expected better -- meaner and tougher, sure, but better nonetheless.
Read this report on the U.S.-Russia Technology Symposium.
It's a great summary of the paradoxes of the Russian economy: They have a huge untapped supply of valuable IT labor, but their IT exports are only a tenth of their military exports (and only a thirtieth of India's IT exports).
They develop lots of new technology, but nobody can tell who owns what.
And, of course, their securities laws and property rights are even flimsier than China's -- after the Putin administration mugged Yukos on the grounds that it was too attractive a target to leave alone, they lost a lot of trust.
Still, they have an unbelieveable amount of untapped potential.
The following a grim story out of Russia tonight where there's proof some of the sailors on board that Russian nuclear submarine the Kursk initially survived the explosion that sank the sub, only to be trapped later.
One of the sailors wrote a letter during those terrible final hours.
Today, 10 weeks after a mysterious accident sent the Kursk to the bottom of the Barents sea, a grisly discovery.
In the pocket of one of the crew, a handwritten note, dying words of a sailor trapped alive in the sunken sub.
He is this lieutenant captain, seen here three years ago aboard the Kursk.
His last words tell a chilling tail -- tale of a desperate but future ill attempt to escape.
It now appears 23 survived -- survived the initial explosion.
The 23 frantically scrambled to the rear of the sub.
They find the escape hatch flooded and seal themselves in compartment nine.
Realizing he will die, he begins to write.
He addressed the letter to his wife, Olga.
He is my dear, dear beloved.
I want to see him again, read his letter.
The chilling account raises new questions and criticisms of the Russian navy, which waited several days before attempting to launch any rescue mission
But navy officials here at the Pentagon say any rescue attempt would have failed, that there really was no hope for the 23 survivors.
It's believed they would have frozen to death in hours, long before they ran out of air.
That may be little consolation for the families.
NBC News correspondent Jim Miklaszweski, the pentagon.
Program note here.
Coming up tonight at 10:00 p.m. eastern, a closer look at the Kursk and similar disasters that have taken place at sea.
An investigation is under way into a fatal airliner accident in Mexico last night.
It happened as the DC-9 was trying to land during a rainstorm.
The Aero Mexico jet skidded off a runway and into a neighborhood in the town of Reynosa, about 50 miles from Brownsville, Texas.
Four people on the ground were killed.
But the 83 people aboard the plane escaped with only scrapes and bruises.
We have been here so many times before the threat of a wider war in the middle east.
There has been impressive progress but a lasting past remains elusive.
President Clinton today considered flying to the middle east for an emergency summit meeting, but he backed away.
How did it come to this so swiftly?
Here's Andrea Mitchell.
Reporter:
The president returns to Washington today, hoping to salvage something from eight years of Middle East diplomacy.
What went wrong?
To many peace seemed so close at Camp David in July.
How did it all fall apart?
First, Palestinian resentment.
On the street, people see no economic rewards, aren't any better off after years of peace talks, and they resent the U.S. for blaming Arafat when the summit collapses while praising Israel's prime minister Barak.
The prime minister moved forward more from his initial position than chairman Arafat, particularly surrounding the questions of Jerusalem.
It's quite clear the Palestinians do not accept the various proposals put forward to divide Jerusalem.
Reporter:
Arafat appears weak, and radical groups like Hamas gain strength.
A weakened Arafat emboldens a great deal of forces that does not want peace.
Reporter:
Second, Israeli frustration.
Many Israelis feel Barak goes too far by offering Arafat partial control of the holy sites, gets nothing in return.
I think Barak was very forthcoming at Camp David.
The intransigence or failure of Arafat to come forward with any counterproposal I think frustrated the prime minister and frustrated the Israelis.
Reporter:
Finally, the summit raises false hopes, is not well prepared by Washington.
The U.S. rushes ahead, eager for a breakthrough before the end of Clinton's term.
Other Arab leaders like Mubarak of Egypt and Fahd of Saudi Arabia are not sold on the deal, tell Arafat to hold out.
If a concerted effort was put together to consult with these people and bring them on board, then probably Arafat would have been able to cut a deal.
I think the United States did not prepare adequately for Camp David.
They should have been much more careful in the preparation and more assured of getting some kind of an agreement.
Reporter:
With most observers saying that Camp David only made a bad situation worse, questions tonight as to why the president would even consider going to another summit with even less hope of a solution.
Washington.
With the presidential debate tonight in St. Louis, the candidates will be in the middle of a hot political issue that's not getting much national attention -- what to do about the Missouri river, the fabled waterway of Lewis and Clark that joins the Mississippi in St. Louis.
It's a far different river now than it once was, and the question is -- should it be allowed to return to its true form?
NBC's national correspondent is Jim Avila.
Reporter:
The wide Missouri, pioneers called it  -- too thick to drink, too thin to plow.
A shallow, slow moving, swampy river that birds and fish loved in its natural state.
The ebb and flow in a river like the Missouri provides the basis for life itself.
Reporter:
But the Missouri is no longer wild, tamed by dams and dredging.
Now a shipping highway the government says endangers the very existence of three critical river species -- the 100 million-year-old Pallid Sturgeon, the shore-wading the Least Tern.
The Missouri's natural rhythm destroyed, say the experts, by six dams in a system from north central Montana to the Mississippi River.
A transformation turning the meandering river into essentially a deep water ditch.
Without providing the higher flow in the spring and the lower flow in the summer that Missouri river species are adapted to, they're going to disappear.
Today's sturgeon can't reproduce in the river any more, only in man-made hatcheries and sand bars, homes to wading birds are being washed away by deep water.
So to save fish and birds and improve recreational use in up-river states, where tourism is a major source of income, the government wants to alter 50 years of steady water flow.
Re-creating the original river by releasing more water in spring, less in summer -- fighting words for downriver farmers and barge operators.
Try explaining that times have changed, nonsense to the people who live along the Missouri river and don't want to go back to the spring floods.
Reporter:
It's about the water and who controls it.
The Missouri, second longest river in the country.
7 states, 2,500 miles long and now according to conservationists, second on the list of rivers in danger.
Farmers say it's the planting season that's in danger if the Missouri isn't controlled in spring.
And barge owners say two dry months in the summer will ruin business.
What this proposal does is double the cost of operation on the Missouri river and will cause those companies to move off the river.
Reporter:
But according to figures from the U.S. Corps of Army Engineers, the four grain producing states along the Missouri, producing nearly 5 billion bushels of grain each year, ship very little by barge now.
16.7 million bushels.
That's .3%.
The barge companies do not own the Missouri river.
The flood plain farmers do not own the Missouri river.
Everybody owns it.
We have to find a way to share the Missouri.
Reporter:
And say environmentalists save three threatened  species and a leisure economy dependent upon a wide, untamed Missouri.
Jim Avila, NBC news, Bismarck, North Dakota.
Grief engulfed Austria, one day after a fire in a cable car filled with skiers killed at least 155 people.
It happened inside a tunnel high in the Austrian Alps.
Here's NBC's Ron Allen.
As helicopters carried emergency crews to the scene of the disaster nearly 100 Americans headed home to military bases in Germany, without eight members of their ski clubs who never came back.
Major Drew Stathis and his 8-year-old daughter say they might have been trapped, but they were just five minutes behind the group.
In the Army you kind of expect, prepare yourself.
But not on a family vacation.
That's where the tragedy is.
Lieutenant Mike Coe got tired of waiting for a train and left a family of four Americans who died, standing in line.
It is horrifying what happened to them.
And it is horrifying how close I was to -- I mean, I guess I'm a good, impatient American who did not want to wait in line.
Today this Alpine resort town came to an abrupt halt as more than 150 victims were all but positively identified.
Friends and relatives who'd been waiting and hoping were taken to a private memorial service.
Up the mountain the usually packed ski areas were completely deserted.
Investigators still haven't figured out what caused this disaster.
Several eyewitnesses have told them they saw flames coming from the train as it headed up the mountain, before it entered the tunnel.
One official here said, by the time the driver noticed the fire, it already was too late.
The main concern now is to remove and identify the victims.
These Americans ended a holiday weekend burdened by a deep sense of loss.
Nobody is looking forward to the long bus ride with our friends missing.
It's going to be hard.
Hard for this entire nation mourning the worst disaster here that anyone can remember.
Ron Allen, NBC News, Kaprun, Austria.
It's now been almost two months since the worst terror attack on a U.S. Navy ship, the destroyer "Cole," and tonight, sources tell NBC News that an American Muslim militant, a prime suspect in planning the attack, is now in custody in Jordan.
His name is Jaed Hijazi, and NBC News has learned he's got direct high-level ties to the terrorist Osama bin Laden.
He's reportedly told U.S. investigators of additional plans, to attack U.S. military aircraft in the Persian Gulf and Middle East.
I can't for the life of me figure out why anyone would invest in the airline industry.
Please, someone tell me a group companies facing more serious problems than the legacy airline carriers (Delta, US Airways, Continental, American, Northwestern, United).
High fuel costs, insane pension obligations, and a highly paid, specialized workforce.
To this list of woes, we add a whole slew of competitors with much lower cost structures.
I admit I've already taken advantage of the lower fares announced last week to book a business trip but these next few years are not going to be pretty for some of these companies.
Unfortunately, the pain is not limited to these companies.
Pittsburgh, one of US Airway's hubs, built up its airport complete with a sprawling retail complex in the terminal.
Now US Airways has reduced flights out of Pittsburgh by 28% since January of 2004 and is in real danger of folding completely.
These shiny new airports are usually financed by long-term bonds that still have to paid off.
..but not by the airlines.
This is an industry looking for a sustainable strategy.
Southwest and JetBlue were the only major airlines to earn a profit in 2004 but who knows what will be happening in another five years.
So I will thankfully accept the low fares, bemoan the loss of food on flights, and watch these companies parade in and out of bankruptcy.
BusinessWeek Online has some other commentary about the fare cuts here and about US Airway's woes here.
Thousands of people in Botswana have lined up to view the remains of an African man whose body was stuffed and exhibited in a Spanish museum for nearly a century.
The man was returned to Africa after complaints from the UN and other organizations that displaying his body was racist and offensive.
The man will be buried at a funeral service tomorrow.
You are listening to BBC news for The World.
I'm Gregor Craigy.
An apparent attack on a US warship has left at least six American sailors dead and about 35 injured.
The explosion came as the guided-missile destroyer USS Cole was refueling at a port in Yemen.
NPR's Chad Pergram reports.
Both the White House and the Pentagon said the attack appeared to be an act of terrorism.
President Clinton immediately whisked to the region investigative teams from the FBI, the Pentagon and the State Department.
The attack comes as US forces in the Middle East have been placed on a heightened state of alert after days of clashes between Israelis and Palestinians.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said the US would continue to protect its interests around the globe.
No one should doubt our resolve to remain a force for peace and for stability and no one should assume that they can force us to retreat.
No one should assume they can attack us with impunity.
The Cole had just arrived in the harbor for a refueling stop.
Officials say men aboard this small boat had been assisting the Cole with mooring lines just before the blast.
Chad Pergram ,NPR News, Washington.
The bodies of 2 more American sailors were recovered today from the USS Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden.
US officials are on the scene and continuing their investigations into the explosion that killed 17 crewmembers on board the Cole last Thursday.
Today there are reports that police in Aden questioned the landlord of an apartment where bomb-making equipment was found and whose occupants may have carried out the suicide attack against the warship.
Also today at the Cole's homeport in Norfolk, Virginia, President Clinton led a memorial service for those who died aboard the Cole.
The service began with the playing of the national anthem.
The President asked all Americans to take a moment to thank the men and women of the military.
Today we honor our finest young people, fallen soldiers who rose to freedom's challenge.
We mourn their loss, celebrate their lives, and offer the love and prayers of a grateful nation to their families.
Mr. Clinton mentioned the name of each of the 17 victims and praised the courage and character of the men and women who serve in the armed forces.
And he delivered this clear message for those who carry out attacks on members of US military.
For those who attacked them we say you will not found the safe harbor.
We will find you and justice will prevail.
America will not stop standing guard for peace, or freedom, or stability in the Middle East and around the world.
At the end of the somber ceremony, President Clinton asked everyone to join him in a moment of silence followed by the Navy Hymn and Taps.
Britain's going to establish diplomatic relations with North Korea.
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook made the announcement on his arrival in the South Korean capital, Seoul.
But Cook says establishing ties with North Korea doesn't mean London will turn a blind eye to human rights abuses in the country.
We have diplomatic relations around the world, we are going to find out who is a human rights breaker, we have very deep and very real concerns.
The advantage of having diplomatic relations is that we can have a direct dialogue in which we can raise these concerns and express our deep anxiety for the need of improvement in them.
Cook says the South Korean leadership is keen on international help in bringing its northern neighbor in from the cold.
Britain said today that it is normalizing relations with North Korea.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair called the decision a historic breakthrough.
It comes  just days ahead of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's trip to the North Korean capital Pyongyang.
Britain's foreign minister Robin Cook, who made the announcement, said opening diplomatic links could help ease tensions between North and South Korea, technically the two countries are still at war.
Germany said today that it also plans to normalize relations with Pyongyang,
Selig Harrison is a Korean affairs specialist at the Century Foundation in Washington DC.
Mr. Harrison, Britain, Italy, prior to that Australia, the Philippines now and apparently Germany all bringing the most secretive state into the fold.
How about the United States, where does that leave us?
Well, I think President Clinton will get some good political cover.
From what Britain has done, if he goes to Pyongyang, as is now being discussed, Secretary Albright is going to go, the number two man in North Korea was in Washington last week.
Things are moving, what's particularly important is that Britain has not attached any conditions.
The United States has imposed a number of conditions on normalizing with North Korea.
The most important of them is that it renounce its missile program and its nuclear weapons program, or rather reach agreements on limiting and possibly ending them both, and as of now we are not in a position to normalize relations with North Korea just like that.
We will want negotiations on some of these contested issues.
Well let me ask you more about America's interest now and Britain's move, I mean how do you make sense of what's happening, especially if Britain was involved in a war with North Korea as obviously was the United States, and until recently North Korea was considered by the US a rogue nation.
It is still shrouded in secrecy, as we said, including in its nuclear weapons program.
Are you trusting of these newly forced alliances, do you consider what Britain is doing either reckless or ill advanced?
No.
And I don't think it is an alliance really, it is just conducting diplomatic interchange with them.
It is not even clear how soon Britain is going to have a mission in Pyongyang.
And so I think it certainly isn't reckless to establish diplomatic relations, and I think indeed it is a very healthy thing because the present leadership of Kim Jong Il, son of the late General You  , he has been trying to open up to the outside world.
He doesn't want to reform his internal economic system or political controls.
On the other hand he needs western capital, he needs supportive international agencies to deal with tremendous economic problems that North Korea has had since the end of the cold war, when they lost their Russian and Chinese economic subsidies.
So that trend of North Korea opening up to the outside, it seems to be, it should be encouraged.
So then as North Korea opens up more and more, what are the possible repercussions down the road for the nearly 40,000 American troops who remain in South Korea?
Well, North Korea's attitude has been that if the United States and North Korea are friends and the North Koreans don't feel threatened, they wont object to some US forces remaining in the Korean peninsula in a new role.
That is to say, if they are going to be there as allies of South Korea against North Korea, then the North Koreans don't want them there, they will keep putting on the pressure for the US to get the forces out.
The North Koreans are certainly not going to end their missile program, if the US continues to maintain some aspects of its military presence in the Korean peninsula such as its aircraft.
So I think they are going to ask for military concessions in order to do what we want them to do regarding missiles, but I think that the assumption that this improvement in ties between North and South and between North Korea and other countries is going to lead to the complete withdrawal of the US from Korea in the near future, certainly I don't think at all, are.
Mr. Harrison, thank you very much for speaking with us.
Thank you.
Selig Harrison is a Korean affairs specialist at the Century Foundation, speaking to us from Washington DC.
Missouri residents remembered Governor Mel Carnahan today.
He died Monday night in a plane crash while campaigning for the Senate.
Thousands attended a ceremony at the Missouri State capital.
President and Mrs. Clinton were among the mourners.
A former US Army sergeant has pleaded guilty in New York to conspiracy in the bombings of American Embassies in east Africa in 1998.
Ali Mohammed, a native of Egypt, has admitted to five charges of conspiring with a Saudi born dissident Osama bin Laden to attack US targets in the Middle-East.
More than 220 people died in the blasts.
Libyan leader Colonel Gadaffi can be prosecuted in France over the bombing of a French airliner in which a 170 people were killed.
That's the ruling of a court in Paris.
It rejected an appeal that as a serving head of state Gadaffi should be immune from prosecution.
The lawyer representing the victims' families Francoise Rudetski is hailing the decision as a victory.
The victory today is that any people who committed an act of terrorism should know that he can be pursued and could be arrested and there is no immunity for anyone, any leaders in the world.
Relatives of those killed after an explosion on board the plane over Niger in 1989, brought the case against the Libyan leader.
Six Libyans including Colonel Gadaffi's brother-in-law have already been tried in their absence.
This is The World.
I am Lisa Mullins.
Putting aside a half century of acrimony, Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright met today with North Korea's leader Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang.
Part of the purpose of this historic visit is to lay the groundwork for a possible trip to North Korea by President Clinton before his term ends.
Albright's visit to Pyongyang is the first by a high level US official since the communist state was established in 1948.
Kong Dan Oh is a Korean expert who has just written a book called 'North Korea through the Looking Glass'.
She is now in the South Korean capital of Seoul.
We know that the visit is making big news there in Seoul.
Can you tell us what is being reported about the meeting between the two sides from the South Korean perspective?
Well, when I look at about six major daily newspapers, basically the top news was Madeleine Albright meeting with the Chairman Kim Jong Il.
And basically that indeed this is a very historic event, and some kind of euphoria and very positive upbeat feeling.
But at the same time, the reports are basically telling the importance of this meeting that is that they have to talk about the very critical security matter issues such as missile and nuke.
But nonetheless, the meeting was very crucial, so I think all in all, it was a very positive beginning.
And how much of South Korea as you mentioned is bordering on euphoria, get this new relationship with Pyongyang and at the visit by Secretary of State Albright?
I know that you have taken a more cautious approach, and I wonder if that applies to Secretary Albright's visit in general?
Do you believe that the US is doing the right thing?
Or is perhaps the United States, in your view, moving too quickly to try and patch things up?
I am kind of taking a slightly cautious approach, simply because if Madam Albright is there, without the really thinking down the road some kind of strategic consequences of this meeting, simply because we are interested in seeing this gentleman and maybe before our term is over, let me meet you.
I think that kind of simple approach to be wrong.
But if she understands importance of this meeting and further brings up substance of issue to be resolved between the North Korea and the United States, I think that is very desirable.
What you're saying is that you feel that the part of the impetus of the North is influenced by the fact that the United States has a presidential election just a couple of weeks away.
I think that is a definitely correct statement, provided that maybe the Republican candidate, Mr. Bush to be elected.
North Korea was very, very scared that Mr. Bush would take a much more hawkish and conservative approach.
So before this Clinton administration comes to be over, they would like to lay down the ground rules and kind of create some kind of positive improvement to deal with the United States.
And obviously one of the most important agendas for tomorrow is to discuss the possibilities of President Clinton's next visit sometime in November.
I know that you have concerns about how a potential visit by President Clinton might be portrayed within North Korea itself.
Why is that a concern of yours?
My fundamental belief is that Kim Jong Il has not really made his mind or made a decision to push the reforms, even in the session of 1978 Chinese reform that was taken by Deng Xiaoping.
He is now gambling, he is trying, but he has not really changed his manner or his policy whatsoever.
His economy and his society's politics is really getting in real deep trouble.
He has to show his power and he's been telling his people that I am the true leader and the world is afraid of us.
All the imperialist capitalist is afraid of us.
That we are the center of the universe.
Without the North Korea, the globe is not existing.
Let me show you that I am the true leader and they will come to our country to pay visit, courtesy visit for me.
And so now Putin visited, President Kim visited, Jiang Zemin will visit next year and the President Clinton will go.
Domestic consumption of this visit will be immense, without changing any policy toward the freedom of proliferation  .
Is it really possible with the kind of close watch that the outside world is now going to be invited to give to North Korea, that Kim Jong Il could actually not change a thing in terms of his policies, internally or externally?
I am exactly wondering like you, and I think that there is a maybe the possibility actually is going up.
So I don't object really any of these like U.K. normalization, you know.
I don't have any objection.
But only when the leaders and the elite, the policy elite, is aware of that what they are bringing and what they are negotiating and how they would like to have an impact on North Korean society, I think that's the important key question.
Kong Dan Oh is the author of the book 'North Korea through the Looking Glass', speaking to us from Seoul, South Korea.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World service, PRI and WGBH in Boston.
I'm Lisa Mullins.
American spy suspect Edmund Pope took the stand again today in a Moscow courtroom.
The former naval intelligence officer faces charges of stealing secret designs for a high-speed Russian torpedo system.
Pope denies acting illegally and President Clinton and Secretary Of State Madeleine Albright have called for his release on health grounds but Russian prosecutors are pressing ahead as The World's Nenad Sebek reports from Moscow.
The trial was suspended earlier in the week because of Pope's poor health.
Pope has a history of bone cancer but a doctor working for the FSB, the Russian security service, pronounced Pope fit enough to stand trial today.
The proceedings are held behind closed doors and Pope's lawyer said today that his client is still very weak and that he wants a new interpreter, says the current one works for the same agency that has charged Pope.
The lawyer Pavel Astakhov says his client is innocent when it comes to espionage.
The whole case as Astakhov claims is an exercise in politics.
This is the first time in almost 40 years that a foreign national is being tried for espionage.
It's quite blatant.
Officials from the security force, which used to be the KGB, are openly boasting about taking an American citizen to court.
Way back in 1961 US military pilot Garry Powers was tried and sentenced but later on exchanged for a captured Soviet spy.
But Powers was caught red-handed.
His U2 spy plane was brought down by Soviet Air Defenses.
Pope was arrested as he was trying to purchase blue prints for what he says is a 10-year-old underwater propulsion system or as the prosecutions claims ultra modern, secret Russian torpedoes.
Former Russian Army Intelligence Officer, Vitaly Schlykov says Pope could easily have been a victim of the Russian obsession with secrets.
We have of course a secrecy culture in this country for decades and decades and reminisce of it are coming to the surface in this case.
The laws on secrecy are still intact from the times of the Soviet Union.
Guilty or not, Pope is being held under a very harsh regime in the Moscow Lefortovo prison where his wife Sherry visited him last week.
We took two pictures of our grandson and they won't let him keep the pictures and I took a coat and gloves and they wouldn't let him have those, but we did get to embrace and we did get to talk about our family for one hour.
Prison rules say that an inmate can only receive approved gifts on the first and third Thursday in a month.
And Sherry Pope's short-term visa didn't enable her to stay that long.
She says she even appealed to the Russian President.
Ed's mother and I both wrote letters to President to ask him to please take into consideration that Ed is 54 years old and that we want him home.
Military intelligence analyst Vitaly Schlykov says Putin is probably caught between a rock and a hard place when it comes to the American's trail.
I'm sure that it came unexpected for Putin.
He wouldn't have approved on a case like this because politically it is very harmful but he came from the ranks of the FSB himself.
He has to pretend that he is sticking to his guns in this case.
In Schlykov's opinion, Pope is likely to get convicted.
But he believes that immediately after the sentencing Pope is likely to be pardoned by Moscow.
US Congressman John Peterson, who has been championing Pope's cause, says he fears that might be too late for Pope.
The main thing we have been pushing for months is health care.
Earlier we had asked for an American doctor to see him.
When they continued to say no then we found Russian doctors.
The judge delayed the trial for a day and a half so we could furnish her with a list of doctors and hospitals in Moscow and after we provided that information she said no.
Pope's lawyer Pavel Astakhov says that what the authorities here call medical care is a joke.
In Pope's case medical control means everyday testing for his suspected cancer.
What they do here is take his blood pressure and temperature.
The very least they could do is take blood tests and bone marrow tests.
The court has even rejected our demand for medical expertise to establish whether he is fit to stand trial.
As Strakovs says he does not trust the Judge Nina Barkova at all.
He says she has rejected almost every one of his 40 objections and suggestions during the trail so far.
Strakovs is now trying to arrange for fresh witnesses for his defense of Edmund Pope, but is not hopeful that even that will be granted by the court.
For The World, this is Nenad Sebek in Moscow.
In Moscow, today there was a dramatic plot twist in a real life courtroom drama.
A lawyer for US spy suspect, Edmond Pope said that the main prosecution witness has retracted his testimony.
According to Pope's attorney the witness said he provided the evidence under pressure from the Russian Secret Service.
Ever since Pope was arrested 7 months ago, the American businessmen has denied charges that he was gathering secret information on a new high-speed Russian torpedo.
The World's Nenad Sebek is following the trial in Moscow.
Nenad, go back and tell us just how we got here?
Who is Edwin Pope and why is he on trial in Russia?
Well, Edwin Pope is a retired American intelligence officer and that's sort of speaks against him when it comes to the Russian public and certainly the Russian court.
He has claimed that he is now just an innocent businessman, who was dealing with the Russian businesses orbit in the Defense Industry.
He has, however, claimed that he is only dealing with the de-classified military material and that when it comes to these torpedoes that we are talking about, that he was buying an underwater propulsion system, which is 10-years old.
What the Russian prosecution is claiming is that Pope was actually after ultramodern secret high-speed Russian torpedoes.
Okay, so tell us what happened in the trial this morning and bring in this professor from one of Moscow's elite universities who is a key witness?
The big news of today was that Pope's attorney distributed to journalists this morning a letter, which he says was written by Anatoly Babkin, who is a Professor at Moscow's Bauman Technical Institute, who until now was considered to be the main witness for the prosecution.
He says that he gave that evidence under pressure having had a grave heart condition proceeding a heart attack.
Professor Babkin says that he never actually met Edwin Pope face to face, nor has he given him any kind of sensitive information, therefore, his former testimony is to be considered as not corresponding to reality says this letter by Professor Babkin.
However, the court today again, this is what we were told by Pope's lawyer, has decided not to accept this change in testimony.
The court said that Professor Babkin had ample opportunities to appear in the court.
What is not clear at this moment is that whether it will allow a personal appearance by Professor Babkin, in which he could sort of say what he said in this letter.
Then I would assume that the Professor is still ailing.
I mean, is he able to take the stand, is there any indication that he will be asked to?
No he is not able to take the stand at the moment.
He is recuperating after a heart attack, but Pope's lawyer has said that court session could actually take place in the apartment of Professor Babkin.
We still have to wait and see whether the court will accept that.
So how important is this evidence?
I mean how pivotal a figure is he?
Is he providing evidence of no one else can?
Well.
From what we have heard so far, this is supposed to be like a key witness, a very important witness, but then the first reaction came from the FSB, the Federal Security Bureau, which is the former KGB, they are the ones who are prosecuting Pope.
Their spokesman said today that their evidence is far from being based only on Babkin's testimony.
He said that FSB has evidence given by other witnesses and experts, as well as, written documents and videos.
This is not, what would know as a standards of American style trial certainly, first of all of the proceedings are conducted entirely in secret.
What is the defense attorney for Edmond Pope saying about the conduct in the trial?
Well.
He is very unhappy with the main judge.
Pope is not being tried by Jury.
He has been tried by panel of judges headed by judge Nina Barkova and what we have heard from the defense attorney Pavel Astakhov is that she has rejected almost every single one of over 40 objections and suggestions that he has so far submitted during the case.
He is very unhappy with the way she has been conducting the whole case and also with the fact that she has denied Edmund Pope the proper medical attention that he has asked for.
And what has like that it happened should Edmond Pope get convicted.
Would he actually serve time?
Well.
Most of the people I have spoken here believe that that would not be the case, that since the case is already being brought to court that he is most likely to get convicted, but will then afterwards be pardoned either by the president or the parliament, and then sent back home for reasons of ill health, but most people here do expect a conviction at the end of this trial.
It was Nenad Sebek in Moscow talking to us about the espionage trial in Moscow of American Edmond Pope.
Thank you very much Nenad.
You are welcome Lisa.
This is PRI, Public Radio International.
A court in Moscow has convicted American businessman Edmund Pope of spying and sentenced him to 20 years in prison.
Pope, a retired naval officer from Pennsylvania, was accused of illegally obtaining secret blueprints for a high speed Russian torpedo.
He argued throughout the case that the information he obtained was already available to the public.
The White House denounced the court action calling it unjustified and wrong.
Pope's wife and his lawyers have also called for his release on health grounds, saying that he suffers from a rare form of bone cancer, which may have returned during his eight months in a Russian prison.
Corey Flintoff, NPR News, Washington.
A court in Moscow today sentenced American businessman Edmund Pope to 20 years in jail.
Pope, a former naval officer, was found guilty of collecting secret blueprints for a high speed Russian torpedo.
Pope denied the charges and he had a powerful ally.
President Clinton had appealed for clemency for Pope on health grounds and had brought the case up with Russian President Vladimir Putin, but Mr. Clinton's pleas apparently fell on deaf ears.
The Russian court today handed down the maximum sentence.
Still, The World's Nenad Sebek in Moscow says that Pope has not yet exhausted his legal options.
He has got 7 days to appeal this particular sentence.
There is also the possibility of asking for a presidential pardon, Pope has actually indeed already done that.
It's just that his wife said that she has not heard neither from the President nor his office.
His health is a big issue as well, isn't it?
Yes, Pope has been suffering from a rare bone cancer in the past and he has been consistently complaining about his health ever since last Spring when he was taken in to the Lefortovo prison.
The thing is that he has not been allowed any access to American doctors and even to Russian doctors of his own choosing.
He has been examined by the Russian doctors in the Lefortovo prison but they have just said that his complaints are unfounded and that it might be a case of severe rheumatism or something like that.
They are not sort of allowing the possibility of his bone cancer reoccurring.
One of the things that has been said here is that Mr. Pope may have run afoul of a changing mood in Russia about what kind of military and security information might be made available to the west for business purposes.
That his intentions were innocent to begin with, but the times changed and what he did began to look more and more like espionage.
That is certainly a possibility but we don't know actually precisely because we don't even know what the initial charges are.
The whole trial was held behind closed doors and the details of the accusations against Pope have never been fully released.
We know that the prosecution claimed that he was trying to purchase secret plans for a top-secret high-speed Russian torpedo.
He was claiming all the time, and his lawyer was saying that he was sort of trying to purchase plans that had been actually out in the open but we do not know the precise legals of that.
That is one of the possibilities.
Another thing which is mentioned here is that Pope simply ran afoul of a new trend in Russia which was a trend where the security services were getting the upper hand where they were trying to prove that they are actually doing their job, that they are catching spies, that they are getting convictions.
We have, for example, today's reaction by General Alexander Zdanovich, he is the head of the FSB support programs.
He was very, very brief in his comments after the sentencing.
He said that the court has said that FSB investigators have acted correctly and in accordance with the law and he says, "Russia has its secrets, we will do our best to protect them".
Maybe Pope simply ran afoul of such attempts by the Russian Security Services to show that they are doing their job.
Putin, on the one hand, is certainly trying to show that he is in charge and that no one from the outside is going to get away with anything.
By the same token though he is not eager to run afoul of the United States and the State Department is very upset.
Is there any possibility that Mr. Putin might consider a pardon?
I would say there is a very strong possibility of that.
We know that President Clinton has spoken to Vladimir Putin about this when they met last time, and certainly the Secretary of State Madeleine Albright has brought up the issue a number of times, as has the State Department indeed with the Russian Foreign Ministry.
In a curious way the sentencing of Edmund Pope might be the beginning of an end of this ordeal for him.
Because now that there is a sentence, once the judiciary process is started, once the FSB brought him to trial everybody here expected that the trial will end and that it will end with a conviction.
But now that this judicial process is over there is a very, very strong likelihood, that's the feeling here in Moscow that President Vladimir Putin might pardon Edmund Pope.
There is a good reason for that, his ill health.
So it would be a nice humanitarian gesture and a way of offering a friendly hand to the west and to the United States in particular.
The World's Nenad Sebek in Moscow.
Thanks a lot, Nenad.
You are welcome.
The United States is hoping that Russia's President Vladimir Putin will follow the advice of his special commission and pardon Edmund Pope.
This week the American businessman began serving a 20-year prison sentence in Moscow after being convicted of spying.
Specifically Russian prosecutors charged that Pope had stolen secrets relating to a high-speed Russian torpedo.
Pope denied the charges and Washington backed him up.
Marsha Lipman is Editor of Moscow based news magazine 'Itogi'.
Marsha, did the Presidential Pardons Commission give any reason for their decision?
It gave several reasons.
I am not sure if those were the formal reasons but members of the commission have been interviewed today by various outlets and they say that they were afraid of the spy mania rising in Russia, that they thought it was really suspicious to them that Edmund Pope was sentenced to the maximum term, whereas the article of the law had 10 to 20 years.
He was sentenced to 20, even though according to the members of the Pardon Commission, the evidence that was presented by the prosecution was far from quotient.
They also said this court did not give the lawyers for the defense due procedure.
The court listened to the defense much less than it did to the prosecution.
Much of this sounds less like a pardon and more like a criticism of the number of institutions that Mr. Putin also has to show some support of,  including his court system and his police and his prosecutors.
How is he going to respond to this and when?
I don't think anybody knows and I don't think anybody will know until President Putin has responded.
It is his decision.
According to the Russian law the Pardon Commission, after it has made its decision, sends it to the President and it's up to him whether to endorse it or not to say no.
One last question for you, Marsha.
He does have a lot to balance doesn't he, President Putin?
Not only the institutions I mentioned but the need to keep things somehow free of tension.
Is this case likely to strain US-Russian relations?
I'm afraid it might.
Recently the Russian policy toward the US has fallen into a line where Russia tries to demonstrate force it once had but no longer does.
It wants to put an end to what is regarded by the current Russian government as humiliation of the past years.
There were numerous attempts to be a source of minor troubles even though Russia can no longer be a source of scare to the west and among such instances there were several, there was just recently flying over by Russian military planes over Kitty Hawk, an American warship.
There is also a scandal that erupted over Russia's declaration that it will sell weapons to Iran, contrary to the earlier made agreement.
Such examples are quite a few already, some of them are combined with material profits for Russia but not necessarily.
Marsha Lipman is Editor of the Moscow based news magazine 'Itogi'.
Marsha,  thank you very much for speaking with us.
Pleasure.
Edmund Pope tasted freedom today for the first time in more than eight months.
Pope is the American businessman who was convicted last week on spying charges and sentenced to 20 years in a Russian prison.
He denied any wrongdoing.
Russian President Vladimir Putin pardoned him for health reasons.
Pope was flown to the U.S. military base at Ramstein, Germany.
He will spend the next several days at the medical center there before he returns home with his wife Sherry.
Pope was in remission from a rare form of bone cancer when he was arrested in Russia.
Doctors will examine him for signs that the cancer may have come back while he awaiting trial in a Russian jail.
A spokeswoman said that Pope was suffering from malnutrition and high blood pressure.
Congratulations from foreign leaders poured into the governor's mansion in Texas today.
The messages were addressed to President-elect George W. Bush and they all contained words of welcome and optimism.
But truth be told for most international figures, Bush is something of an unknown.
He has traveled little and his diplomatic experience is limited to contacts with Mexican officials during his tenure as governor.
The World's Jeb Sharp has been hunting down clues to the foreign policy of the incoming administration.
A few broad foreign policy themes emerged during the campaign.
Chief among them are debate over the wisdom of US intervention.
Bush clearly favors limiting the use of American force and troops to solve conflicts overseas.
Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says that view is consistent with the philosophies of two top Bush advisors, Russia expert Condoleezza Rice and retired General Colin Powell.
Certainly, Condoleezza Rice, certainly Colin Powell who I expect, the two of them to be the dominant force in the next administration on foreign policy.
I certainly think they believe they would like to not intervene as much as the Clinton administration or I guess the previous Bush administration did.
In fact, Condoleezza Rice who is slated to become Bush's National Security Advisor has already said she'd like to see US troops pulled home from the Balkans.
But, Robert Kagan says its one thing for Bush's advisors to state a philosophy, its quite another to implement it.
I think they may find the world has a way of intruding itself and that it won't be that easy to pull forces out of the Balkans for instance, without destroying the NATO alliance.
After Rice made some comments about having a new division of labor, I think that was the word she used with regard to NATO and peacekeeping issues, there was a riot in Europe and the real fears that the United States was getting ready to withdraw from the continent and I think they had to walk that back a little bit.
The Balkans is just one example where the Bush administration will have to walk a fine line in delineating a different approach from that of Mr. Clinton.
The foreign policy challenges facing the next President are daunting.
The Mid East peace process is on hold with Israelis and Palestinians practically at war.
The sanctions regime against Iraq has unraveled.
Russia and China are alarmed at the prospect of America beefing up its missile defenses.
India and Pakistan, now nuclear powers are locked in a dangerous standoff.
Stability in East Asia is another pressing concern.
But despite the challenges, Northeast Asia expert Bates Gil of the Brookings Institution is encouraged by what he knows of the Bush foreign team.
One of the most interesting aspects of the new likely team under the Bush administration is first of all, extensive experience in defense and military affairs.
Secondly, it's easy to point to a number of persons who will have leading positions who have had extensive experience in East Asian affairs.
So you have a combination of depth of experience plus an understanding of the region.
Both of which will come in handy if there is a crisis with China over Taiwan or relations with North Korea deteriorate.
In such a crisis, Bush is likely to rely on the advice of government officials who cut their teeth during the cold war.
Some critics like Gore advisor Bruce Jentelson worry that the Bush team will be out of step with today's issues.
Issues related to globalization, global public health, technology, and those challenges.
Yet in my view a truly realistic policy cannot be based only on the old agenda issues, really has to address these new agenda issues as well.
But no matter what sort of expertise Bush's international affairs people bring to the White House, they won't be able to fully control what happens on their watch.
Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says each President's foreign policy is ultimately shaped by events, not theories.
Really, most of a President's foreign policy comes down to how they respond to specific events.
Bill Clinton did not come in to office intending to send troops to Haiti and the Balkans, and events sort of forced his hand and I think that, you know, the truth is Bush administration comes in with certain kinds of prejudices, but we will have to see how they respond to crises.
And the only thing that I'm confident of is that there will be crises.
President-elect Bush is expected to begin naming his top cabinet picks in the next few days.
Those choices will mean everything when the first crisis rolls around.
For The World, I'm Jeb Sharp.
In 1998, the United States voted against the creation of the World's first permanent International War Crimes Court.
President Clinton still has a chance to sign the treaty creating the Court before a final deadline this Sunday.
Advocates are pressing him to do just that, but Conservatives in Congress and Pentagon officials don't want the US to join the treaty.
The World's Jeb Sharp explains why.
Jesse Helms, the Conservative and powerful Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has made it clear the Rome's statuette would be dead on arrival if it were brought to Congress for ratification.
But proponents of the permanent International Criminal Court would still like to see President Clinton at least sign the treaty before the New Year's eve deadline.
Richard Dicker of Human Rights Watch says Clinton's signature would be an important symbolic gesture.
What he will accomplish is making a clear statement that the United States not only in the former Yugoslavia, not only in Rwanda, not only in Cambodia, not only in Sierra Leone, where the administration has supported efforts at justice, but worldwide the United States supports the rule of law and supports holding those accused of genocide to account under the highest standards of due process.
But the opposition here in the United States is intense.
It comes mainly from the Pentagon where US military officials fear the Court will leave Americans vulnerable to politically motivated prosecutions.
Negotiators have tried to include safeguards in the treaty to address those fears, but stop short of exempting US personnel from prosecution.
John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute shares the Pentagon's objections.
I think there is every prospect such a court and its prosecutor would be highly politicized and the principal target of a court like this might well turn out to be the United States or Israel or other countries like that.
Bolton says that almost happened at the War Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, when Chief Prosecutor Carla Delponte briefly contemplated an investigation of NATO's bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999.
But proponents of the court say it's healthy for the United States and its allies to come under the same scrutiny as other countries.
Richard Dicker of Human Rights Watch says Delponte's handling of the NATO case was exemplary.
Carla Delponte was acting as any responsible prosecutor must when she receives credible allegations of wrongdoing.
She looked into those allegations and then after an appropriate investigation she dismissed them.
Richard Dicker says President Clinton should keep the promise he made to the Rwandan people in 1998 when he told survivors of the genocide there the United States would support the International Court.
But John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute says a Clinton signature in the face of stiff domestic opposition would be meaningless.
I think it's a symbolic act that doesn't achieve much, but I don't think anybody internationally should think that whatever President Clinton does will have the slightest impact on the next administration.
Despite American objections, the International Criminal Court enjoys wide support worldwide and among major US allies.
131 countries have signed the treaty, 7 today and 25 have ratified it.
60 nations in all must ratify the treaty for the International Criminal Court to come into existence.
That's expected to happen, with or without US support, in 2002.
For The World, I'm Jeb Sharp.
This is PRI, Public Radio International.
Got job?
And so, I have rejoined the world of the fully employed.
After Christmas, I got a call from the wife of one of my former bosses (at my last full-time job).
She was looking for a Development Assistant at the retirement community where she works.
I started here 4 weeks ago.
WM is affiliated with, but not run or fully supported by, the denomination I've been a part of all my life (UMC).
My grandmother (who was Baptist) lived here for a few months before she died in 1995, so I have many connections to the job.
Our offices are in one of the patio homes, and I have my own lovely office with a window.
The job's only about 12 miles from home, and I'm going against the bulk of the traffic mornings and afternoons.
It all seems perfect and yet.
.. Oh, I'm so thankful to be somewhere so nice where I might actually make a difference in people's lives, and I want to keep an open mind and hope it'll last forever, but I have a feeling I'll be restless within a year or so.
My boss is a very nice person, but conservative and resistant to technology, i.e. computers, internet, etc.
We just got new computers a week and half ago, and she's griping about XP (her old OS was Windows 98--mine was 95, so I'm thrilled with the new stuff).
I tell her it'll just take some getting used to.
We'll see.
I'm not making the kind of salary I was hoping to get, but it's the best salary I've gotten thus far.
When I was fulltime in radio I made a little less, but I got quite a few remotes, which make up for not getting a topnotch salary.
I'm still doing my TV announcing and my weekend radio stuff, so that money will help.
I'm going to start actively pursuing more voice work in the next month or so, too.
My plan is to pay off my car early, and then work on the other debts.
I think it's time to go on and fill out the adoption applications.
I'm terrified of more debt, but Mom and Dad will help with the money.
I'm not sure they realize how expensive it all is.
I'm thinking we might lean toward adopting from Guatemala, but we've still not hashed it all out.
It's almost bad making some money now, because while most of me wants to save as much as possible, the other, smaller part is screaming loudly for stuff, stuff, stuff!!!
I've got a trial subscription to XM at work because of the Dell computers, and now I'm lusting to have it all of the time.
G got me a nice office stereo for my birthday and it does have an aux jack, so I could listen to it here.
He asked if I wanted a car stereo, and I said no, but I do.
There are so many things I want.
A garage.
A dining room set.
New stuff for our house.
New clothes.
New everything.
But I want family more.
I think part of the draw of the other stuff is I could get it now.
But I'd be paying for it later.
Money makes the world go round and round and round til I'm just dizzy.
A Moscow court has denied a request by US spy suspect Edmond Pope for a medical examination, despite his rare bone cancer.
Mr. Pope's condition has gone untreated since he was jailed five months ago.
Russia accuses the former US naval intelligence officer of illegally obtaining secrets about a high-tech Russian torpedo.
On Friday the court denied a series of defense motions that also included a request to tape the proceedings and replace the court translator, who works for Russian security.
The trial opened Wednesday and has been suspended until Monday.
Ivory Coast's army has pledged its loyalty to opposition candidate Loran Gbagbo.
The pledge followed a tumultuous 24 hours that ended the rule of the junta, which seized power last December.
Soldiers and civilians took to the streets to celebrate the departure of junta leader General Robert Guei.
In an address on state television, Wednesday, Mr. Gbagbo, leader of the Ivorian Socialist party, said he would be forming a cabinet shortly.
A Russian scientist has told a Moscow City court that the information an American businessman allegedly tried to purchase about a Russian torpedo is commonly available and not a state secret.
The scientist, an expert on the torpedo and a defense witness at the trial of businessman Edmond Pope said he had often used the torpedo information for his research and had spoken openly about it.
A defense lawyer said the testimony would help his client.
In Yemen, a bomb threat has forced the tightening of security at the hotel housing US investigators probing the attack on the USS Cole.
Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon told reporters the situation caused the Secretary of Defense to call US field commanders.
The Secretary held a video conference call with all the commanders in chiefs, as well as the service chiefs and the service secretaries and the topic was force protection.
The hotel has been hosting scores of investigators who are looking into the apparent suicide bomb attack on the navy destroyer that killed 17 US sailor two weeks ago.
The US Navy destroyer damaged apparently by a terrorist bomb while refueling at the Red Sea port Aden has begun its journey back to the States for repair.
As Dave Gavlak reports, the USS Cole was towed out of the Aden harbor to awaiting Norwegian transport ship, that will actually carry the damaged destroyer home.
The American national anthem played as four tug boats pulled the USS Cole slowly out of Yemen's Southern port of Aden.
The Cole was badly damaged two weeks ago in an apparent suicide bombing that killed 17 US sailors.
Security was tight as the ship was towed out.
American and Yemeni patrol boats mounted with machine guns escorted the Cole out to open waters while American helicopters flew overhead.
Some Yemenis expressed relief to see the ship leave.
Many locals said they feared the bombing of the ship would serve as an excuse for continued US military presence in the Gulf country.
Diplomats and analysts have commented that a joint investigation into the attack may in fact strengthen ties between the world super power and the poor, but strategic Arab state.
US and Yemeni officials say they believe Islamic militants may have carried out the bombing.
So far two little known Islamic groups have claimed responsibility for the attack.
Yemeni authorities claimed they have detained over 70 people for questioning.
These include some Afghan-Arab volunteers who came to Yemen after fighting against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s.
Dave Gavlak for VOA News, Cairo.
And this is VOA News now.
I'm Tom Crosby.
As we have been reporting, the White House confirms Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat are going to meet separately with President Clinton later this week.
Meanwhile, there has been continued trouble in the streets of West Bank and the Gaza Strip with at least two more Palestinians killed, Sunday in clashes with Israeli troops.
Laurie Kassman reports the trouble came despite an impassioned plea from Prime Minister Barak that Mr. Arafat rein in the rioters and return to the negotiating table.
On Saturday, Palestinians reported more than 30 injuries.
But reports of the fighting also talked of a drop in the level of violence, since both sides agreed to a cease-fire late Wednesday night.
More than 170 Palestinians have died and more than 6000 are reported to have been wounded in clashes with the Israeli military.
Several Israeli soldiers and civilians have also been killed.
Shopkeepers in East Jerusalem are being urged to close their doors to protest against the killing of two Palestinian teenagers on Friday, Southeast of Jerusalem.
Both Arab and Israeli businesses are suffering from the latest violence.
A shopkeeper in the Arab town of Jaffa, which is adjacent to Tel Aviv, complains that few Israelis venture into the area since clashes erupted there a few weeks ago.
Jaffa is usually bustling with Israeli and foreign tourists.
All our work is dependent totally on the Jews.
If they are not coming, so really we cannot work.
I mean, what happens that the Arabs here, the 20,000 Arabs in is dependent on the Jews going to their market and the Jews coming here.
So we cannot live, I mean, we are really totally paralyzed right now.
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat have agreed to meet separately with US President Bill Clinton to see how to ease tensions and get the peace process back on track.
The meetings will take place later in the week after the US presidential vote on Tuesday.
Laurie Kassman, VOA News, Jerusalem.
US Defense Secretary William Cohen plans to travel next week to nine Middle Eastern Gulf states for meetings with regional leaders.
Mr. Cohen will depart next Tuesday to visit Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Israel, Jordan and Egypt.
The Pentagon says, the Secretary will consult with defense officials in those countries and also visit US troops in the area.
US forces in the Gulf have been on high alert, since last month's apparent terrorist bombing of the USS Cole, which killed 17 sailors.
An explosion struck the Cole, as it refueled in the Yemeni port of Aden.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair arrives in Russia today for talks with Vladimir Putin on security, foreign policy, and economic issues.
They are also expected to discuss a new Russian proposal for deep cuts in US and Russian long-range missiles.
VOA's Larry James in Moscow.
The highlight of the one-day visit will be three hours of talks on Tuesday, during which Mr. Blair and Mr. Putin will focus on a wide range of issues including Russia's latest call for cutting the number of strategic nuclear warheads to below 1500.
President Clinton has said such a deal is possible, but that it will be first necessary to convince Moscow of the merits of America's proposed Missile Defense System.
The US wants to amend the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty so it can develop such a system.
Russia believes such a move could spark a new arms race and has threatened to tear up existing weapons agreements and stop disarmament talks if the United States goes ahead.
On Sunday Mr. Putin called on the Russian parliament to quickly ratify the amended Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty.
That treaty requires Russia to make further non-nuclear weapons reductions in some areas of the country including breakaway Chechnya.
President Putin acknowledged that Russia is still violating its commitment in Chechnya, but he said it is only a temporary situation which has the ultimate aim of cutting armaments in the region.
He also thanked the 29 other signatories to the treaty for their understanding.
He said Russia is fully behind the agreement that, he said, is an efficient instrument of ensuring security in Europe for years to come.
The original treaty was signed in 1990 and led to the destruction of thousands of heavy weapons by NATO and the former Warsaw Pact.
Tony Blair became the first western leader to come to Russia to meet the new President last March even before Mr. Putin was elected.
The Russian leader returned the favor by making London one of his first foreign destinations after taking office.
The two have already met four times this year.
Analysts here in Moscow believe Britain can play a useful role as a bridge to both Europe and the United States.
Trade is also expected to figure significantly in the talks.
Britain ranks as the third largest investor after the United States and Germany with just slightly more than $1 billion invested in Russia.
Larry James, VOA News, Moscow.
More than 50 people are dead in Nigeria, after a leaking oil pipeline burst into flames outside the commercial capital, Lagos.
The blast and resulting fire Thursday, ripped through an area near a fuel-loading depot owned by the state-run Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation.
Witnesses report seeing burnt bodies littering the charred grounds while many other victims are being treated for injuries sustained in the blaze.
A spokeswoman for the Petroleum Company says the fire was caused by vandals.
The Voice of America presents differing points of view on a wide variety of issues.
Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United States government.
For nearly 20 years, the world has faced the challenge posed by AIDS.
Since 1988, the first day of December has been designated by the United Nations as World AIDS Day.
This is the time to disseminate information and faster cooperation in the battle against AIDS, the number one cause of infectious disease in the world.
The picture of the epidemic is bleak.
According to a new UN study, in the past year over five million people have been infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
Since the beginning of the epidemic, about 22 million people have died of the disease.
While infections among adults are decreasing, infections among children are increasing.
Many of these cases are in sub-Saharan Africa where infected mothers are transmitting the virus to their babies during delivery.
Africa accounts for more than four-fifths of the world's AIDS-related deaths.
In some African countries, one out of four adults is infected with HIV.
But Eastern Europe has seen the biggest explosion of new infections.
In Russia, the rate of infection has more than doubled this year to 300,000.
South and Southeast Asia are other high-risk areas with five and three quarter million adults and children now living with HIV or AIDS.
In too many places, discussion of AIDS is taboo and the disease is shrouded in mystery and misinformation.
But as the grim statistics make clear, it is critical that the governments and citizens of those nations most affected by AIDS, do their part to recognize the scope of the epidemic and act decisively to confront it.
As President Bill Clinton said, we must work together to break the silence, to fight the stigmatization and protect the rights of those living with HIV and AIDS, and to help those infected find the care and treatment they need.
We must pledge to stay the course in our crusade until the world is finally freed from the shadow of this devastating epidemic.
Welcome to another hour of news and information on the Voice of America.
I'm David Chadwick, with VOA News now.
The death toll in Colombia from three days of heavy fighting between soldiers and rebels now stands at more than 100.
At least 54 soldiers and 50 guerillas have died in clashes around the northwestern cities of Bagado and Dabeiba.
Nearly all of the buildings, government buildings in those two cities, have been reportedly destroyed.
The clashes began Wednesday, when the rebel revolutionary armed forces of Colombia launched attacks on a number of northwestern towns.
An army helicopter went down close to the border with Panama, killing all 22 soldiers on board.
In South Asia, authorities in Bangladesh's Southwestern port of Mongla have called on the Army to control riots that have left at least four people dead and 58 injured.
Officials say the trouble began when striking dock workers tried to storm the port authority offices and police fired to disperse them.
The demonstrators are demanding that more people be hired to load and unload goods at the port.
Beginning early next year, visitors to Yosemite National Park in California will see some changes.
A new plan is aimed at protecting the giant Sequoia trees, scenic valleys, and waterfalls from the impact of four million tourists a year.
Under the new plan, visitors will have very limited access to the park by car.
The 343 million-dollar plan will create a new shuttle bus system to alleviate traffic congestion.
It will also remove roads from meadows, create more hiking trails, and restore campsites damaged by a 1997 flood.
Yosemite spokesman Scott Gediman says while these measures have been controversial, the preservation effort will not sacrifice visitor enjoyment.
And so we certainly do not want to limit access or will not limit access to the National Park, but we need to design the facilities, design parking areas, design the infrastructure in a way that we can handle these large amounts of people.
Yosemite is not alone in seeking new management strategies to preserve natural areas.
Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona is putting in a light rail system.
And Zion National Park in Utah has just established a new shuttle bus system.
With environment briefs, I'm Roseanne Skirble.
President Clinton has urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to order the release on humanitarian grounds of a US businessman convicted of spying.
A White House spokesman says the two leaders spoke by telephone today, after the Russian government's pardon commission recommended the release of Edmond Pope.
Earlier, a senior Russian official said Edmond Pope could be home by Christmas.
The former US naval intelligence officer was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in prison Wednesday, on charges he illegally obtained a classified information on a Russian torpedo.
Colombia's second largest Marxist rebel army has released forty-two soldiers and police officers.
Government officials say the National Liberation Army freed the captives today in Northern Colombia.
The forty-two prisoners were captured two years ago during clashes with the guerilla group.
Hardly a day passes without news photos of the police dragging limp protesters from some building or thoroughfare in one of our cities.
Of recent note are the activities of the pro- and anti-abortionists, anti-nuclear activists, animal rights protesters, college students concerned about racism, anti-apartheid groups, various self-styled "environmentalists" and those dissatisfied with the pace of the war against AIDS.
Maybe he didn't start it, but Mohandas Gandhi certainly provided a recognizable beginning to non-violent civil disobedience as we know it today.
The Mahatma, or "great souled one," instigated several campaigns of passive resistance against the British government in India.
Unfortunately, according to Webster's Biographical Dictionary, "His policies went beyond his control and resulted . . . in riots and disturbances" and later a renewed campaign of civil disobedience "resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment."
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did, but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.
It is difficult, however, to justify civil disobedience, non-violent or not, where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change.
Where truly representative governments are safeguarded by constitutional protections of human rights and an independent judiciary to construe those rights, there is no excuse for breaking the law because some individual or group disagrees with it.
There may be a few cases where the law breaking is well pinpointed and so completely non-invasive of the rights of others that it is difficult to criticize it.
The case of Rosa Parks, the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus, comes to mind as an illustration.
But most cases of non-violent civil disobedience are not nearly so benign.
The public has a tendency to equate lawful demonstrations with non-violent civil disobedience.
It is true that both are non-violent, but there is a fundamental difference between them.
Lawful demonstrations, such as peaceful picketing and other assemblages that do not disturb the peace or cause a public nuisance or interfere with the rights of others, are rights guaranteed by any truly free system of government.
Civil disobedience, violent or non-violent, is intentional law breaking.
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience; but, before we get on with that, let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations.
They are useful to call public attention to grievances, but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute.
The delight of television in dramatic confrontation encourages overuse of slogans chanted through bullhorns, militant gestures, accusatory signs and other emotionally inspired tactics.
Civilized discourse and an environment where compromise can begin are lost in a hostile posture abetted by superficial media interviews.
At best, demonstrations are overused and boringly uninformative; at worst, they can become the stimuli that lead to law breaking.
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct when they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile.
Petty criminals and street people looking for excitement attach themselves like remora to the fringes of the crowd and use the protest as an excuse for rock throwing, auto trashing, arson, window breaking, looting, pocket picking and general hooliganism.
Soon the whole purpose of the demonstration is lost in mob mania.
There are better ways to promote a cause.
Where non-violent civil disobedience is the centerpiece, rather than a lawful demonstration that may only attract crime, it is difficult to justify.
Some find no harm in the misdemeanors of trespass, minor property destruction, blocking traffic and the like.
They say these are small prices to pay for galvanizing action for the all-important cause.
The crimes may appear small, but the prices can be huge.
Here are two cases to illustrate.
Assume a neighborhood demonstration to protest speeding on a certain road or a careless accident involving a police car.
The protesters lie down in the street, blocking traffic, and will not move until the authorities carry them away.
Assume that someone caught in the jam has a heart attack.
There is no way to get an ambulance in quickly to move him to a hospital.
He dies.
The demonstration was non-violent and involved only a simple misdemeanor, but its impact on that individual was violent and terminal.
Assume that a TV network is airing a celebrity interview program with a live audience.
The politician appearing is highly controversial and has recently generated a good deal of rancor amid certain groups.
In a planned protest against his appearance, several members of the studio audience chain themselves in front of the TV cameras in such a way that the program cannot continue.
The network must refund money to the advertisers and loses considerable revenue and prestige.
The demonstrators have been non-violent, but the result of their trespasses has been to seriously impair the rights of others unconnected with their dispute.
It might be alleged that TV has done more than its share to popularize and promote non-violent civil disobedience, so the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of "chickens coming home to roost."
Or maybe the TV network would lose nothing.
Geraldo or Phil would probably pull up another camera and interview the chained protesters.
Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly, yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole.
I am referring to those young men who chose to disobey their country's call to arms during the Vietnam war and fled to Canada or some other sanctuary to avoid combat.
Their cowardly acts of civil disobedience, which they tried to hide under the cloak of outrage at a war they characterized as "immoral," weakened the national fabric and threw additional burdens on those who served honorably in that conflict.
Even more at fault are those leaders in and out of government who urged and supported their defections, thereby giving great help and comfort to the enemy propagandists.
It is amazing that the ensuing mass executions in Vietnam and Cambodia do not weight more heavily on minds so morally fine-tuned.
Worse, it remained to a well-meaning but naive president of the United States to administer the final infamy upon those who fought and died in Vietnam.
Under the guise of "healing the wounds of the nation," President Carter pardoned thousands of draft evaders, thus giving dignity to their allegations of the war's "immorality."
The precedent having been set, who can complain if future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding until it is over?
Finally, I think it important to point out the extraordinarily high visibility of non-violent civil disobedience in these days of intensive media coverage.
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law, and no second invitation will be required.
This brings into question the motives of those who lead civil disobedience demonstrations.
Do they want the spotlight for themselves or for their cause?
Here is a good rule of thumb: If the movement produced the leader, the chance that he is sincere is much greater than if the leader produced the movement.
In either case, ask yourself whether you have become better informed on the issues under protest by watching the act of civil disobedience.
If you have not, it is probable that a thorough airing of the dispute by calm and rational debate would have been the better course.
Mr. Agnew was vice president of the U.S. from 1969 until he resigned in 1973.
As the leading candidate for president of his country in next year's election, Mario Vargas Llosa ought to be in an enviable position.
But his country is Peru, where political visibility, especially for a believer in democracy and free enterprise -- a right winger in Latin American eyes -- makes a man a target for assassination.
For almost any Peruvian these days, to show an interest in public office is a heroic gesture; for Mr. Vargas Llosa especially so, since he already has achieved a high position in the world's eyes as a writer.
Published everywhere to universal acclaim, doted on like a movie star in the Hispanic world from Barcelona to Ushuaia, Mr. Vargas Llosa could live comfortably on his royalties and console his political conscience with the thought that Peru is a hopeless mess not of his making and that he already did his best to reform it with his magnificently cinematic novel about the years of military dictatorship of his youth, "Conversation in the Cathedral."
But, after some hesitation, he is back on the stump and also still writing important novels about Peru.
"The Storyteller" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 246 pages, $17.95), splendidly translated by Helen Lane, first appeared in Spanish in 1987 before the Peruvian economy had reached its present state of virtual collapse.
And in any case the story takes place a bit earlier than that, when the guerrilla war in the highlands had not yet made internal travel a gamble with destiny.
Even still, the very first sentence of this fable that weaves together Peru's most advanced and most primitive cultural strands speaks of "my unfortunate country."
The narrator may be talking about the depredations of the Shining Path Maoists among the Indians of the Andes, or he may be referring to the plunging inti, Peru's rubber currency, or the corrupting effect of the cocaine trade.
But he is swiftly drawn into a tangle of memories about a less newsworthy and more exotic part of Peru: its corner of the Amazon jungle.
This narrator is a foil for Mr. Vargas Llosa, a cosmopolitan writer with one well-tailored leg in journalism.
He is in Florence to shake himself free of Peru and get some writing done, just as Mr. Vargas Llosa has gone to Paris and now goes frequently to London for the same purpose.
But this narrator happens upon some photographs in a gallery, pictures taken in Peruvian Amazonia of the untamed and nomadic Machiguenga tribe.
And they remind him of his own experiences with that unhappy scattered culture and of his friend at Lima's University of San Marcos, Saul Zuratas.
Saul was a high-strung student of ethnography, a Jew marked doubly as an outsider because of a huge wine-dark birthmark on his face, for which people called him Mascarita, Mask Face.
Saul knew about the Machiguengas from his studies, and through him the narrator became interested in this most recalcitrant and un-Westernizable of all the indigenous peoples who had come under the Spanish yoke.
Saul, meanwhile, came to believe that anthropology, even at its most benign, was as insidious a form of cultural imperialism as the superficially more blatant activities of Christian missionaries.
Saul mysteriously disappears.
This is what we know at the end of the opening section of "The Storyteller."
The next voice we hear sounds like this: "There was no evil, there was no wind, there was no rain.
The women bore pure children.
If Tasurinchi wanted to eat, he dipped his hand into the river and brought out a shad flicking its tail . . ."
And this: "Moving, walking.
Keeping on, with or without rain, by land or by water, climbing up the mountain slopes or climbing down the ravines."
The speaker is never identified.
He tells his stories in his majestically simple way, in a "language" all his own.
There are creation myths and cosmologies and hunting stories -- a whole culture is contained within these dreamy narratives.
It is as though Mr. Vargas Llosa had recorded a storytelling session at a Machiguenga campfire.
And this is just the effect he hopes to have on the reader, as he alternates chapters in his "own" voice with chapters somehow "borrowed" from the Machiguenga storyteller.
For most of the book, there is no direct connection between its urban and its Amazonian modes.
But the contrast between them becomes a living thing through the brilliant contrast of narrative styles that Mr. Vargas Llosa creates.
He controls this counterpoint like a novelistic Bach, reaching an audacious extreme in a hilarious chapter in which the "Vargas Llosa" voice relates his adventures as an inept television newsman.
But the joke turns serious when a reportage takes him to Amazonia and he encounters the missionaries who know more than anyone else about the Machiguengas.
By this point, the narrator has become obsessed with finding out about the Machiguenga storytellers, who, he had heard years before, functioned like cultural glue for a tribe split into many small bands in constant motion through the jungle.
The storytellers traveled among the bands, reminding them of their identity.
But why would no Machiguenga the narrator meets during his reportage even admit that there were storytellers?
The narrator eventually deduces the extraordinary answer, which is confirmed in a literally Kafkaesque manner by a storyteller in the next chapter.
I am trying to give away as little as possible, but this is not really a mystery or some kind of jungle thriller.
It will be read for the brilliant clash of styles of narration and the even more brilliant way that they have been tied together into a large metaphor for literature and its function in society.
It was a parent's ultimate nightmare.
As the crippled jet prepared for an emergency landing, Sylvia Tsao wrapped her 23-month-old son, Evan, in blankets and, following cabin-crew orders, placed him on the floor.
She held him down tightly, trying to protect him.
"Suddenly, the world seemed to end," she told investigators later.
Crashing into a cornfield, United Airlines' Flight 232 flipped over, and she lost her grip on her son.
"I saw for an instant my son's body floating and flying" toward the back of the plane, Ms. Tsao recalled.
When the plane stopped moving, she frantically tried to find him.
But Evan died of smoke inhalation.
July's Sioux City crash has fueled an emotionally charged debate.
Safety advocates and members of Congress, calling babies "the neglected population," are stepping up a campaign for the mandatory use of infant safety seats on all flights.
But the Federal Aviation Administration is reluctant to require separate seats for babies because of the added cost for traveling parents.
Some FAA officials note that few infants have been killed in plane crashes, raising the question of whether safety seats really are needed.
A 1981 Harvard Medical School study that scrutinized accidents in the late 1970s concluded that perhaps three babies would have been saved in a five-year period if safety-seat use had been required.
The National Transportation Safety Board will take a close look at the issue during four days of hearings that begin today on the broader issue of what caused the crash that killed 112 people.
"Infants', toddlers' and young children's safety should no longer be ignored as if they don't count," Mrs. Tsao wrote to the board in advocating use of the safety seats.
All 50 states require that small children be strapped into safety seats in cars.
On planes, FAA rules dictate that children two years old and over have their own tickets and be strapped into regular seats, just as adults are.
Babies under two may sit on laps and fly for free.
But it is almost impossible to keep hold of a baby during an air crash, or even in severe turbulence.
During the Sioux City crash, Lori Michaelson of Cincinnati lost her grip on her baby as the plane lurched and tipped over.
Another passenger heard one-year-old Sabrina's cry and pulled her from an overhead luggage compartment.
The FAA encourages the use of safety seats, but in the past many parents have run into problems trying to use them, even when the plane was only half-full or they had bought an extra ticket especially for the baby.
When Vanessa Merton, an associate dean at Pace University School of Law, decided to take her young son to Europe last spring, she called four carriers to ask about their policies on car seats.
"The people acted like I was transporting heroin," she says.
One reservation agent told her -- incorrectly -- that the airline barred the use of the seats on flights.
After the Sioux City crash, Lori Michaelson bought a car seat for her daughter for the flight home to Cincinnati.
But on one leg of the trip, she was ordered by a flight attendant to take Sabrina out of the seat and hold her during takeoff and landing -- the most dangerous parts of any flight.
Airlines say that such mistakes are decreasing in the aftermath of Sioux City, but proponents of the safety devices say they still get complaints from parents.
"People are told one thing on the phone, another at check in, another at the gate, and another on the plane," says Stephanie Tombrello, executive director of the Los Angeles Area Child Passenger Safety Association, which petitioned the FAA in June for mandatory use of child-safety seats.
The Association of Flight Attendants, the main flight attendants' union, is strongly backing that request.
The FAA argues that requiring safety seats for all babies might actually diminish, not enhance, safety.
As part of such a rule, officials say, parents would probably be required to buy an extra ticket for the baby.
The increased cost of flying would inevitably encourage some families to drive rather than fly, they say.
Commercial airlines have the lowest accident rate of all transportation modes -- much lower than cars, for example.
Anthony Broderick, the FAA's acting Executive Director for Regulatory Standards and Compliance, contends that the current rule is the best approach because it allows parents to make their own decision on whether to use a safety seat.
But he admits that the agency is in "a very uncomfortable position."
He says the agency soon will propose that airlines be prohibited from denying the use of safety seats.
(Most airlines don't prohibit their use.)
He says the agency also will seek public comment on whether the seats should be required.
Walter Coleman, Vice President of Operations for the Air Transport Association, the trade group for the major airlines, describes the call for safety seats as "legitimate" and says the group is studying the issue.
But privately some airline officials fear that if parents must buy extra tickets for babies, whole families will stop flying.
Others worry that the FAA might write a rule forcing airlines to pick up part of the tab for increased infant safety.
Generally, airlines say they welcome the use of a government-approved safety seat and will even allow the restraint to take up a regular seat for free if the flight isn't crowded.
(Most car seats made in recent years are certified for use on aircraft and are so marked.)
But space can only be guaranteed if a ticket is purchased.
What the industry really wants is some kind of device that would protect babies without taking up an extra seat.
But no one has come up with anything that is safer in a crash than the current practice of bundling babies up and trying to pin them to the floor.
Parents are advised against holding the infants, for fear that in an accident the babies could be crushed by the adult's weight.
Proponents of safety seats are turning up the heat on the FAA.
Yesterday, Rep. James Lightfoot, an Iowa Republican, sent FAA Administrator James Busey a letter signed by 56 House members urging the agency to require infant safety seats.
If the FAA refuses, Rep. Lightfoot says, he will push legislation to require the change.
It is a peaceful time in this part of western India.
The summer crop is harvested, winter sowing has yet to begin.
Farmers in loose turbans and fancy earrings spend their afternoons laughing and gossiping at the markets.
One could imagine such a lull in the lives of the Arabs before the quadrupling of oil prices.
For just as the Arabs were in the 1960s, the farmers of Sidhpur are on the brink of global power and fame.
The Arabs had merely oil.
These farmers may have a grip on the world's very heart.
Or, at least, its heart disease.
That is because Sidhpur has a near-monopoly on the world's supply of flea seed, also known as flea wort or, in Western parlance, psyllium: a tiny, tasteless, obscure seed that, according to early research, may reduce cholesterol levels in the blood.
Ever since the link to cholesterol was disclosed, Americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals.
If further research proves the seed's benefits, this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad to rival all fads since cod-liver oil.
"This seed's not grown anywhere else in India, or anywhere else in the world," says T.V. Krishnamurthy, a vice president of Procter & Gamble India Ltd., a major psyllium buyer and promoter.
"The proper climatic conditions don't exist in many places in the world."
Arvind Patel, a processor and exporter of the seed, raves: "If psyllium takes the place of oat bran, it will be huge."
Whether psyllium makes Sidhpur's fortune depends on cholesterol-fearing Americans, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and, of course, the outcome of further research.
Only one thing is certain here: Pysllium is likely to remain solely an export item from Sidhpur for a long time.
Local farmers say it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek, a legume.
But they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning, and, perhaps, little need: lean, frugal vegetarians, the farmers are innocents in the clogged, treacherous world of cholesterol.
Psyllium is an annual herb, Plantago ovata, that has been used for centuries by folk doctors here, mainly as a laxative and anti-diarrheal.
As such, the soluble fiber has an almost fanatic following in northern India.
"I can assure you," attests a 25-year-old lawyer in New Delhi, with a meaningfully raised eyebrow, "from personal experience, it works."
A prominent businessman in Bombay gives a similar testimonial: "I have been taking it daily since 1961."
Folk doctors also prescribe it for kidney, bladder and urethra problems, duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids.
Some apply it to gouty joints.
The plant has a hairy stem that produces flowers and diminutive seeds.
It is the seed's colorlessness and size -- 1,000 of them weigh only 1.5 grams, or about as much as two paper clips -- that explain the historical allusions to fleas.
The translucent husk of the seed is removed, sifted and crushed; the seed itself is fed to animals.
Some 90% of the crop, which was worth $26 million last year, is exported.
For decades, psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co.'s Metamucil, the top-selling brand in the U.S., and Ciba-Geigy Corp.'s Fiberall.
But some time ago, researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
Cincinnati-based P&G took an interest; it ordered two studies on psyllium and cholesterol.
One of the studies, done at the University of Minnesota, tested 75 people with raised cholesterol levels.
After 16 weeks, the group that took three daily teaspoons of Metamucil saw a significant dip in their general cholesterol levels, and an even larger reduction in levels of low-density lipoproteins, the so-called bad cholesterol.
In late 1987, P&G asked the FDA for approval to market Metamucil as the first non-prescription, cholesterol-lowering product in the U.S.
In April, the psyllium bandwagon got more crowded.
General Mills Inc., the food giant, launched a breakfast cereal called Benefit, containing psyllium, oat, wheat and beet bran; the words, "reduce cholesterol" were prominently displayed on its package.
In September, Kellogg Co. launched a competing psyllium-fortified cereal called Heartwise.
Suddenly, on television, in advertisements and on their cereal boxes, Americans were inundated with news about the obscure seed.
The flood of claims and counter-claims worried consumers and actually hurt sales of the new cereals.
This month, the Food and Drug Administration expressed concern that Americans might someday, in various forms, ingest too much psyllium.
Currently, there is a lull in the psyllium war.
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe.
It also ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol.
But the agency hasn't yanked psyllium off store shelves.
If the FDA approves the new uses of psyllium, other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products.
"It's going to be a sensational thing," says Mr. Krishnamurthy of P&G in Bombay.
Says psyllium exporter Mr. Patel: "I just got back yesterday from the U.S.
In the newspapers, on the radio and TV, psyllium is everywhere."
But the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers.
They only know of one use for the crop, as a laxative, and with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop, they think of the seed as a marginal crop, something to grow between summer wheat crops.
"Psyllium's not a good crop," complains Sooraji Jath, a 26-year-old farmer from the village of Lakshmipura.
"You get a rain at the wrong time and the crop is ruined."
Even at the Basic Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetics Export Promotion Council, the government agency that promotes the seed, the psyllium boom is distant thunder.
The staff brags about psyllium's hefty contribution to American regularity, without quite grasping the implications of the research on cholesterol.
The council's annual report has psyllium on its last page, lumped with such unglamorous export items as sarsaparilla and "Nux vomica," a plant that induces vomiting.
In one way, the psyllium middlemen -- the buyers and exporters -- are glad to keep news of the boom to themselves.
They want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year.
But there's a catch.
Sidhpur and adjacent districts are the only places in the world where psyllium is grown in large quantities.
This is partly due to the particular demands of the crop.
Psyllium needs sandy soil, dew during the first few weeks, and then total dryness when its seeds are maturing.
Small crops are grown in Pakistan, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium and Brazil, but their quality can't compare to that of Indian psyllium.
Big buyers like Procter & Gamble say there are other spots on the globe, and in India, where the seed could be grown.
"It's not a crop that can't be doubled or tripled," says Mr. Krishnamurthy.
But no one has made a serious effort to transplant the crop.
In Sidhpur, it is almost time to sow this year's crop.
Many farmers, too removed to glean psyllium's new sparkle in the West, have decided to plant mustard, fennel, cumin, fenugreek or castor-oil seeds.
Mr. Jath is thinking of passing up psyllium altogether this year in favor of a crop with a future such as cumin or fennel.
"Maybe I'll plant castor-oil seeds."
His brother, Parkhaji, whose head is swathed in a gorgeous crimson turban, nods vigorous assent.
So when next year's psyllium crop is harvested in March, it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom.
And the world could experience its first psyllium shortage.
Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega may have accomplished over the weekend what his U.S. antagonists have failed to do: revive a constituency for the Contra rebels.
Lawmakers haven't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras, and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday, saying only that "if there's an all-out military offensive, that's going to change the equation 180 degrees."
But Mr. Ortega's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him, effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters.
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) said yesterday on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press" that Mr. Ortega's threat was "a very unwise move, particularly the timing of it."
The threat came during a two-day celebration in Costa Rica to highlight Central America's progress toward democracy in the region, attended by President Bush, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and 14 other Western Hemisphere leaders.
Mr. Bush returned to Washington Saturday night.
Mr. Ortega announced on Friday that he would end the cease-fire this week in response to the periodic Contra assaults against his army.
Saturday, he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire if the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras.
He asked that the remaining U.S. humanitarian aid be diverted to disarming and demobilizing the rebels.
Not only did Mr. Ortega's comments come in the midst of what was intended as a showcase for the region, it came as Nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned February elections.
Outside observers are gathering in Nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates.
And important U.S. lawmakers must decide at the end of November if the Contras are to receive the rest of the $49 million in so-called humanitarian assistance under a bipartisan agreement reached with the Bush administration in March.
The humanitarian assistance, which pays for supplies such as food and clothing for the rebels amassed along the Nicaraguan border with Honduras, replaced the military aid cut off by Congress in February 1988.
While few lawmakers anticipated that the humanitarian aid would be cut off next month, Mr. Ortega's threat practically guarantees that the humanitarian aid will be continued.
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.) said yesterday on "Meet the Press": "I would hope after his {Mr. Ortega's} act yesterday or the day before, we'd have unanimous support for quick action on remaining humanitarian aid."
Sen. Dole also said he hoped for unanimous support for a resolution he plans to offer tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan leader.
While renewing military aid had been considered out of the question, rejected by Congress and de-emphasized by the Bush administration, Mr. Ortega's statement provides Contra supporters with the opportunity to press the administration on the issue.
"The administration should now state that if the February election is voided by the Sandinistas . . . they should call for military aid," said former Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams.
"In these circumstances, I think they'd win."
Sen. Mitchell said that congressional Democrats intend to honor the March agreement to give non-lethal support to the Contras through the February elections, although he added that the agreement requires that the Contras not initiate any military action.
Mr. Ortega's threat to breach the cease-fire comes as U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves.
Secretary of State James Baker, who accompanied President Bush to Costa Rica, told reporters Friday: "I have no reason to deny reports that some Contras ambushed some Sandinista soldiers."
Mr. Baker's assistant for inter-American affairs, Bernard Aronson, while maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire, acknowledged: "It's never very clear who starts what."
He added that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units when it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire.
In addition to undermining arguments in favor of ending Contra aid, Mr. Ortega's remarks also played to the suspicions of some U.S. officials and conservatives outside the government that he is searching for ways to manipulate or void the February elections.
Administration officials traveling with President Bush in Costa Rica interpreted Mr. Ortega's wavering as a sign that he isn't responding to the military attacks so much as he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections.
Mr. Abrams said that Mr. Ortega is seeking to demobilize the Contras prior to the elections to remove any pressure to hold fair elections.
"My sense is what they have in mind is an excuse for clamping down on campaigning" by creating an atmosphere of a military emergency, he said.
A frozen mountaintop in Tibet may offer an important clue about whether the Earth is warming perilously.
Researchers at Ohio State University and Lanzhou Institute of Glaciology and Geocryology in China have analyzed samples of glacial ice in Tibet and say temperatures there have been significantly higher on average over the past half-century than in any similar period in the past 10,000 years.
The ice samples are an important piece of evidence supporting theories that the Earth has warmed considerably in recent times, largely because of pollutants in the air, and will warm far more in the century ahead.
A substantial warming would melt some of the Earth's polar ice caps, raising the level of the oceans and causing widespread flooding of heavily populated coastal areas.
"If you can use data to reconstruct what happened in the past, you have much more confidence in predictions for the future," said Lonnie Thompson, a research scientist at Ohio State who dug for and analyzed the ice samples.
To compare temperatures over the past 10,000 years, researchers analyzed the changes in concentrations of two forms of oxygen.
These measurements can indicate temperature changes, researchers said, because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change.
Analysis of ice from the Dunde ice cap, a glacial plateau in Tibet 17,000 feet above sea level, show that average temperatures were higher in 1937-87 than in any other 50-year period since before the last Ice Age, Mr. Thompson said.
Some climate models project that interior regions of Asia would be among the first to heat up in a global warming because they are far from oceans, which moderate temperature changes.
But the ice-core samples aren't definitive proof that the so-called greenhouse effect will lead to further substantial global heating, Mr. Thompson acknowledged.
According to greenhouse theories, increased carbon dioxide emissions, largely caused by burning of fossil fuels, will cause the Earth to warm up because carbon dioxide prevents heat from escaping into space.
Skeptics say that if that's the case, temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century, reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide.
Instead, the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s, decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s, then higher temperatures again through last year.
Other temperature data show similar unexplained swings.
"Climate varies drastically due to natural causes," said Mr. Thompson.
But he said ice samples from Peru, Greenland and Antarctica all show substantial signs of warming.
An enormous turtle has succeeded where the government has failed: He has made speaking Filipino respectable.
The 6 1/2-foot-tall turtle, Pong Pagong, is a character who stars in the children's television show "Batibot."
He speaks only in Filipino.
"Batibot," which started in 1983 as a hybrid of the U.S. program "Sesame Street," has developed into a distinctly Philippine effort.
Radio programs and books have followed the daily television show.
In the process, "Batibot," an archaic Filipino word meaning "strong" or "enduring," has become a powerful advocate of the use of the Filipino language.
"It impresses on ordinary, young Filipinos that there's nothing to feel inferior about in using their own language," says Randy David, a sociologist and host of a popular television talk show.
"When we started the program six years ago, the use of Filipino was deemed unwise by the predominantly middle class," says Lydia Brown, the program's creator.
Now, she says, "it's no longer an issue."
The success of "Batibot" stands in marked contrast to many academic and government attempts to promote Filipino as a national language.
Filipino -- once known as Pilipino -- is predominantly Tagalog, the Malay-based language spoken in a part of the country's principal island of Luzon.
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country's elite, who generally prefer English.
But while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English, they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino, say advocates of the native language.
"For the middle and upper-middle class {Filipino} is declasse," says Bien Lumbera, a Philippine-studies professor at Quezon City's University of the Philippines.
There's also resentment.
Other opponents of Filipino come from non-Tagalog regions.
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight, although recent surveys indicate that the majority of the country's population understands Filipino more than any other language.
(There are seven major languages and more than 70 dialects in the country.)
What tongue to speak is an emotional mine field in the Philippines.
It is entrenched in the country's colonial bonds to the U.S., in Philippine class structure, in the regional loyalties of its people and in its island geography.
As they did when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S., teachers for the most part teach in English, even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children.
As a result, they often speak one language at home, another at school.
Mrs. Brown calls the modern-day cultural ambivalence to Filipino a "language schizophrenia."
The issue has been simmering for years.
It doesn't take much to provoke an intense debate.
When President Corazon Aquino, whose command of Filipino is spotty, announced last year that the language would be used in official communications, there was an uproar from many legislators, who continue to conduct debates mostly in English.
But many proponents of Filipino see resistance to the language finally crumbling.
They believe the media, including "Batibot," have played a crucial role.
According to chief scriptwriter Rene Villanueva, "Batibot" doesn't set out to advance the cause of Filipino.
"It's not as if we're teaching language per se," he says, "We're just using it."
These days, "Batibot" is produced in a converted lumberyard on a shoestring budget of $3,000 a one-hour segment.
It is shown weekdays on two of the country's five networks.
With an audience totaling more than 400,000, "Batibot" consistently ranks in the country's top-four most-watched daytime programs.
But advertising revenue is inadequate.
Periodically, there are threats that the program will fold.
"Batibot" lacks the polish of "Sesame Street."
Sound stages echo.
Acting sometimes falls flat.
There are only two large puppets in the program: Pong Pagong and a monkey named Kiko Matsing.
But the production is the equal of any local program.
And the show's creativity makes up for any technological deficiencies.
The program isn't afraid to tackle controversial topics such as nuclear weapons and the environment.
Not that the language war is won, even on "Batibot."
During one recent episode, all the advertisements were in English.
The Canadian government, with a view to becoming more politically active in Latin America, is expected to announce tomorrow its application to join the Organization of American States, a Washington-based regional agency.
The expected Canadian move has been welcomed by the Bush administration even though Canada has opposed such U.S. actions as the trade embargo against Cuba, the invasion of Grenada and the military support for Nicaragua's Contra guerrillas.
Latin American countries have long urged Canada to join the OAS in the hopes that it would be a counterweight to the U.S., which for many years tended to dominate the 32-nation organization.
Even though the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership, it hasn't been a Washington priority.
"The fact that we might not side with the Americans may be a reason why Canada's membership in the OAS hasn't been, over the years, an item high on the U.S. agenda," said Allan Gotlieb, former Canadian ambassador to the U.S.
The Canadian application is expected to be announced in San Jose, Costa Rica, by Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, who is attending a centenary celebration of Costa Rican democracy.
"Canada has a larger and more beneficial role to play in the hemisphere," Mr. Mulroney said recently.
Some Canadian political commentators have opposed Canada's joining what they see as a U.S.-dominated organization.
"Canada could do plenty of things to get serious about Latin America without running the risk of getting caught in the cross fire" between the U.S. and Latin American members of the OAS, said Jeffrey Simpson, a columnist in Toronto's Globe & Mail newspaper.
Canada, at times, could be an awkward OAS partner for the U.S. if its United Nations voting record is an indication.
In U.N. General Assembly votes last year, Canada voted the same as the U.S. only 63% of the time.
France voted the same as the U.S. 76% of the time, West Germany 79% and Britain 83%.
Larry Birns, director of the Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a liberal research group, said that Latin American countries would be "profoundly disappointed" if Canada were to follow the U.S. lead in the OAS.
"Latin Americans see Canada as a non-interventionist power that respects their sovereignty," he said.
The OAS, which tries to promote peace and economic development within the Americas, is attempting to find a settlement of the current Panama political crisis.
Cuba has been suspended from OAS membership, but the organization's members are discussing Cuba's reinstatement.
Early this century, diamond mining in the magnificent dunes where the Namib Desert meets the Atlantic Ocean was a day at the beach.
Men would crawl in the sand looking for shiny stones.
It was as easy as collecting sea shells at Malibu.
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes, searching for that unusual glint.
But only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's diamond kingpins, do their work.
Last year, 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats, which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat, or one-fifth gram.
Oh yes, the Atlantic was also pushed back 300 yards.
"If there's diamonds out there, we'll get to them," says Les Johns, De Beers's engineering manager.
Here, wedged between shifting dunes and pounding waves at the world's most inhospitable diamond dig, lies the earth's most precious jewel box.
Thanks to centuries of polishing by Mother Nature -- first in the gentle current of the Orange River that carried the stones from South Africa's interior, then in the cold surf of the ocean, and finally in the coarse sands of the desert -- 98% of the diamonds uncovered are of gem quality.
While other mines might yield more carats, a higher percentage of them go to industrial use.
Since this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault, it has been turned into one.
Months after railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908, the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area, a designation normally reserved for military operations.
When the Germans lost World War I, they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer, patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers.
Today, no one gets in or out of the restricted area without De Beers's stingy approval.
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa.
Ghost towns dot the Namib dunes, proving diamonds aren't forever.
Oranjemund, the mine headquarters, is a lonely corporate oasis of 9,000 residents.
Jackals roam the streets at night, and gemsbok, hardy antelope with long straight horns, wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers.
On most days, the desert's heat and the cool of the ocean combine to create a mist like a damp rag.
The wind, stinging with sand, never seems to stop.
Still, miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming.
And Oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds.
There are six video rental shops, three restaurants, one cinema and 34 sports and recreation clubs for everything from cricket to lawn bowling.
The pride of Oranjemund is the 18-hole golf course -- with the largest sand trap in the world.
Last year, when the rising Orange River threatened to swamp the course, the same engineers who are pushing back the Atlantic rushed to build a wall to hold back the flood.
"Nothing is too good for our golf course," says Tony George, a mining engineer.
Despite fears the mine may be partially nationalized by the new Namibian government following next month's elections freeing the country from South African control, De Beers engineers are working to extend the mine's productive life for another 25 years, from the current estimate of 10.
Huge machines that look as though they came from the Star Wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes.
Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters; a whirring ferris wheel-like excavator, with buckets instead of seats, chews through layers of compacted sand; tracks and conveyor belts, shuttling sand to the screening plants, criss-cross the beach.
Then there is the artificial sea wall, 600 yards long and 60 yards thick, jutting into the ocean.
Made of sand, it receives around-the-clock maintenance against the battering waves.
When the mining in front of the wall is complete, it is moved northward.
A companion jetty that helps hold back the sea looks like a rusting junkyard.
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier, but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood.
Then someone decided to try broken-down earthmoving equipment that, inexplicably, held against the waves.
"The Caterpillar people aren't too happy when they see their equipment used like that," shrugs Mr. George.
"They figure it's not a very good advert."
Despite all these innovations, most of the diamonds are still found in the sand swept away by the men wielding shovels and brushes -- the ignominiously named "bedrock sweepers" who toil in the wake of the excavators.
Laboring in blue and gray overalls, they are supposed to concentrate on cleaning out crevices, and not strain their eyes looking for diamonds.
But should they spy one, the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value.
For these workers at the bottom of the mine's pay scale, this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15 years in jail.
Still, employees do occasionally try to smuggle out a gem or two.
One man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie.
Another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe.
A food caterer stashed stones in the false bottom of a milk pail.
None made it past the body searches and X-rays of mine security.
The Food and Drug Administration banned all imports of mushrooms from China in response to a rash of food-poisoning outbreaks linked to canned Chinese mushrooms.
"The agency has concluded that contamination may be widespread throughout the mushroom-processing industry in China," an FDA spokesman said yesterday.
The agency won't allow mushrooms that were canned or packed in brine at any Chinese plant to enter the U.S. until "satisfactory sanitation-control measures are implemented in China to prevent" bacterial contamination.
On May 19, the FDA began detaining Chinese mushrooms in 68-ounce cans after more than 100 people in Mississippi, New York and Pennsylvania became ill from eating tainted mushrooms.
In subsequent tests, the agency found smaller-size cans from several Chinese plants to be similarly contaminated.
The outbreaks were traced to Staphylococcus aureus, a type of bacteria that produces a toxin capable of surviving the high temperatures used in canning vegetables.
A recall of the mushrooms blamed for the food poisoning began in early March.
In 1987, China exported 65 million pounds of mushrooms, valued at $47 million, to the U.S.
The shipments went mostly to food-service distributors that supply pizzerias and restaurants.
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy here said that the Beijing government has taken "many effective measures" to stop the mushroom contamination and is further investigating the underlying causes.
He predicted the problem will be solved "very soon."
Outside the white-walled headquarters of the so-called Society of Orange Workers, all seems normal in South Africa's abnormal society.
A pickup truck driven by a white farmer rumbles past with a load of black workers bouncing in the back.
Over at Conradies, the general store, a black stock boy scurries to help an elderly white woman with her packages.
Down the street, a car pulls into the Shell station and is surrounded by black attendants.
But inside the white walls of the Orange Workers' office -- just about the largest building in town, save for the Dutch Reformed Church and the school -- South Africa's neat racial order is awry.
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes.
White women serve tea and coffee, and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards.
White children empty the wastepaper baskets and squeegee the windows.
There isn't a black worker in sight.
Not in the kitchen, or the storeroom or the book shop.
"If we want to have our own nation, then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves," says Hendrik Verwoerd Jr., son of the former prime minister and the leader of the Orange Workers, founded in 1980.
They do indeed want their own nation.
The pillars of apartheid may be trembling in the rest of South Africa, with Johannesburg opening its public facilities to all races, blacks storming the all-white beaches of the Cape and the government releasing seven leaders of the banned African National Congress.
But here in Morgenzon, a sleepy town amid the corn fields of the eastern Transvaal, the Orange Workers are holding the pillars steady.
The Orange Workers -- who take their name from William of Orange of the Netherlands, a hero of the Dutch-descended Afrikaners -- believe that the solution to South Africa's racial problems isn't the abolition of apartheid, it's the perfection of apartheid -- complete and total separation of the races.
Here, then, is where the Orange Workers have come to make apartheid's last stand.
Their idea is to create a city, first, and then an entire nation -- without blacks.
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa.
And the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe.
But their ideal of an Afrikaner homeland, an all-white reserve to be carved out of present-day South Africa, is a mainstream desire of the right-wing, which embraces about one-third of the country's five million whites.
Afrikaner philosophers and theologians have long ruminated on the need for a white homeland.
The Orange Workers are just putting this preaching into practice.
Thus, farmer Johan Fischer, his T-shirt and jeans covered in grease, crawls around under his planter, tightening bolts and fixing dents.
On almost every other farm in South Africa, black workers do the repairs.
But not here.
Mr. Fischer plows his own fields, sows his own corn and sunflowers, and feeds his own sheep.
Over at the fiberglass factory, four white workers assemble water tanks on their own, and in their spare time they build townhouses across the road.
On Main Street, Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop, then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family.
Down by the stream, a group of Orange Workers puts the finishing touches on a golf course.
If whites want to play there by themselves, says consulting engineer Willem van Heerden, whites should also build it by themselves.
"If we want to survive as a people," he says, "we have to change our way of life.
The Afrikaner must end his reliance on others."
In their quest to perfect apartheid, the Orange Workers have discovered a truth that most of privileged white South Africa tries mightily to deny: The master can't become dependent on the slave and expect to remain master forever.
"If apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it, but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration, then these are two contradictions that can't go on forever," says Mr. Verwoerd.
He is sitting in his living room, beneath a huge portrait of his late father, Hendrik F. Verwoerd, apartheid's architect and South African prime minister from 1958 to 1966.
Somewhere, the son sighs, things went terribly wrong with apartheid; today, whites even rely on blacks to police their separation.
"People took separate development as an opportunity to use black labor without ever getting rid of it.
But my father meant it to mean real separation," says the son.
The Orange Workers speak sincerely.
"We agree with world opinion that the status quo in South Africa is morally wrong," says Pieter Bruwer, the Orange Workers' chief scribe and pamphleteer.
"We must either integrate honestly or segregate honestly."
Morgenzon has long been a special domain of Afrikanerdom.
According to Mr. Verwoerd, the early Afrikaner pioneers were the first people to settle in the eastern Transvaal, even before the blacks.
Then, when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908, the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town; blacks could work there, but they had to leave at night.
Today, Morgenzon is a town of 800 whites and two paved roads.
Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks, and many houses and storefronts are empty.
There are few factories and no mines.
It was an ideal place for the Orange Workers to start their new nation, unencumbered by the demographics that have undermined apartheid elsewhere in South Africa.
So far, about 150 Orange Workers have moved here, spending nearly $1 million buying up property over the past three years.
Still, complete and total segregation remains elusive.
Just beyond the city limits is a shantytown of 2,000 blacks who are employed throughout the area.
Despite the Orange Workers' intention to put them all out of work, they are in no hurry to leave.
A young man called July (that's when he was born), who works at the railroad station just up the street from the Orange Workers office, points at the white walled building and says matter-of-factly, "We're not allowed in there, that's all I know."
The 650-or-so local whites who aren't Orange Workers are more troubled.
Try as they might, they just can't conceive of life without black workers.
"Impossible, impossible," say the Conradies, an elderly couple who have run the general store for decades.
"We can't do without their help," says Mrs. Conradie.
"Oh no.
We need them and I thank God for them."
Over at the Shell station, owner Rudi van Dyk, who doubles as Morgenzon's mayor, worries that the Orange Workers have made his town the laughingstock of the nation.
"What they want us to do just isn't practical," he says, noting that he employs 16 blacks.
"I couldn't afford to hire 16 whites.
The only Afrikaners who would be willing to work for this salary wouldn't know how to handle money."
Back at the Verwoerd house, Hendrik Sr. peers down over the shoulder of Hendrik Jr.
The son believes that when the Afrikaners finally realize there is no turning back the integration of South African society and politics, Morgenzon will boom.
"We urge our people not to wait until they have to fight for their own nation," says Mr. Verwoerd.
"By populating a place now, we make ourselves a power any new government will have to take into account."
Curiously, he compares the Orange Workers to the ANC, which his father outlawed in 1960.
"The ANC won't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations," says Mr. Verwoerd.
"Likewise, no government will stop this idea of the Afrikaners."
He apologizes for sounding pushy.
"Look," he says, "If the rest of South Africa wants to have an integrated melting pot, that's their choice.
We'll leave them alone.
We just want to have our own cup of tea."
And they will even serve it themselves.
When Maj. Moises Giroldi, the leader of the abortive coup in Panama, was buried, his body bore several gunshot wounds, a cracked skull and broken legs and ribs.
They were the signature of his adversary, Panamanian leader Manuel Antonio Noriega.
The rebel officer's slow and painful death, at the headquarters of Panama's Battalion-2000 squad, was personally supervised by Gen. Noriega, says a U.S. official with access to intelligence reports.
Leaping into rages, sinking into bouts of drunkenness and mistrust, Mr. Noriega has put to death some 70 of his troops involved in the coup, according to U.S. officials monitoring crematoriums and funeral parlors in Panama City.
He is now changing the place he sleeps every night, sometimes more than once a night.
His meals are most often prepared by women he trusts -- his full-time mistress, Vicky Amado, and her mother, Norma.
And he is collecting the names of those who telephoned the coup-makers to congratulate them during their brief time in control of his headquarters.
More enemies to be dealt with.
In the two weeks since the rebellion, which the U.S. hesitantly backed, Mr. Noriega has been at his most brutal-and efficient-in maintaining power.
Yet, while the failed coup is a major U.S. foreign policy embarrassment, it is merely the latest chapter in a byzantine relationship between Mr. Noriega and Washington that stretches back three decades.
America's war on the dictator over the past two years, following his indictment on drug charges in February 1988, is the legacy of that relationship.
Before American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega, it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama's long history of conspirators and pirates.
For most of the past 30 years, the marriage was one of convenience.
In 1960, for example, when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute, according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period.
The woman had nearly died.
But U.S. intelligence, rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy, merely filed the report away.
Mr. Noriega's tips on emerging leftists at his school were deemed more important to U.S. interests.
From that point on, the U.S. would make a practice of overlooking the Panamanian's misadventures.
The U.S. has befriended and later turned against many dictators, but none quite so resourceful.
The 55-year-old Mr. Noriega isn't as smooth as the shah of Iran, as well-born as Nicaragua's Anastasio Somoza, as imperial as Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or as bloody as Haiti's Baby Doc Duvalier.
Yet he has proved more resilient than any of them.
And out of necessity: the U.S. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power, but a single error on his part could cost him his life.
"The U.S. underestimated Noriega all along," says Ambler Moss, a former Ambassador to Panama.
"He has mastered the art of survival."
In keeping with America's long history of propping up Mr. Noriega, recent U.S. actions have extended rather than shortened his survival.
Mr. Noriega might have fallen of his own weight in 1988 because of Panama's dire economic situation, says Mr. Moss, but increasing external pressure has only given him additional excuses for repression, and a scapegoat for his own mismanagement.
"If the U.S. had sat back and done nothing, he might not have made it through 1988," Mr. Moss contends.
Perhaps most important, Mr. Noriega's allies have intervened to encourage -- in some cases, to demand -- that the dictator maintain his grip of the throne.
One Colombian drug boss, upon hearing in 1987 that Gen. Noriega was negotiating with the U.S. to abandon his command for a comfortable exile, sent him a hand-sized mahogany coffin engraved with his name.
"He is cornered," says the Rev. Fernando Guardia, who has led Catholic Church opposition against Noriega.
"The Americans have left him without a way out.
It is easy to fight when you don't have any other option."
His chief advantage in the fight: his intimate knowledge of American ways and weaknesses.
Mr. Noriega often tells friends that patience is the best weapon against the gringos, who have a short attention span and little stomach for lasting confrontation.
The U.S. discovered the young Tony Noriega in late 1959, when he was in his second year at the Chorrillos Military Academy in Lima, according to former U.S. intelligence officials.
The contact occurred through Mr. Noriega's half-brother, a Panamanian diplomat based in Peru named Luis Carlos Noriega Hurtado.
Luis Carlos, knowing that helping the Americans could advance the career of any Panamanian officer, relayed Tony's reports on the leftist tendencies he observed among his fellow students and, more important, among his officers and instructors.
A spy was born.
It was a heady experience for the pockmarked and slightly built Mr. Noriega, who was known to his friends as Cara la Pina -- pineapple face.
Born the illegitimate son of his father's maid, he was raised on the mean streets of the central market district of Panama City.
Tony was four years older than most of his fellow cadets, and gained admission to the academy because his brother had falsified his birth certificate.
He considered himself intellectually superior to his Peruvian peers, many of whom were wayward sons sent by their well-off families to the highly disciplined, French-modeled academy as a sort of reform school.
In his peaked military cap and neatly pressed, French-made uniform, Noriega felt more respected and powerful than ever in his underprivileged life, friends from the period say.
"He had an elegant uniform with gold buttons in a country where there was a cult of militarism, where officers were the elite with special privileges," recalls Darien Ayala, a fellow student in Peru and a lifelong friend.
Mr. Noriega's relationship to American intelligence agencies became contractual in either 1966 or 1967, intelligence officials say.
His commanding officer at the Chiriqui Province garrison, Major Omar Torrijos, gave him an intriguing assignment: Mr. Noriega would organize the province's first intelligence service.
The spy network would serve two clients: the Panamanian government, by monitoring political opponents in the region, and the U.S., by tracking the growing Communist influence in the unions organized at United Fruit Co.'s banana plantations in Bocas del Toros and Puerto Armuelles.
United Fruit was one of the two largest contributors to Panama's national income.
Satisfying its interests was a priority for any Panamanian leader.
Mr. Noriega's initial retainer was only $50 to $100 a month, plus occasional gifts of liquor or groceries from the American PX, a former intelligence official says.
It was modest pay by American standards, but a healthy boost to his small military salary, which fellow officers remember as having been $300 to $400 monthly.
"He did it very well," recalls Boris Martinez, a former Panamanian colonel who managed Mr. Noriega and his operation.
"He started building the files that helped him gain power."
A National Guard job assumed by Capt. Noriega in 1964 -- as chief of the transit police in David City, capital of the Chiriqui Province -- was tailor-made for an aspiring super-spy.
By pressuring taxi and bus drivers who needed licenses, he gained a ready cache of information.
He knew which local luminaries had been caught driving drunk, which had been found with their mistresses.
This proved particularly valuable to the Panamanian government in 1967, when union leaders were planning a May Day march that the government feared could turn violent.
Mr. Noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy.
So he splashed the information on handbills that he distributed throughout the banana-exporting city of Puerto Armuelles, which was ruled by United Fruit Co.
The campaign so divided union leaders that the government found them far easier to control.
"It was like a play on Broadway," recalls Mr. Martinez.
"Noriega managed the whole thing.
He was superb.
Noriega was an expert at bribing and blackmailing people."
During his years in Chiriqui, however, Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious.
Rodrigo Miranda, a local lawyer and human-rights monitor, recalls an intoxicated Noriega visiting prisoners in their cells at the 5th Zone Garrison headquarters in David, where he had his offices.
Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked, laughing at them and then retreating to his office.
"People started wondering if something was wrong with him," Mr. Miranda recalls.
But through this period, so far as the U.S. military was concerned, Mr. Noriega was a model recruit.
He signed up for intelligence and counter-intelligence training under American officers at Fort Gulick in Panama in July 1967, according to a copy of a 1983 resume with details Mr. Noriega has since classified as secret.
He flew to Fort Bragg, N.C., in September of that year for a course in psychological operations, returning to the School of the Americas in Panama for a two-month course called "military intelligence for officers."
Some American officers interpreted his eagerness and studiousness as a sign of loyalty, but they did so falsely.
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama's so-called G-2 in 1970 after providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier.
He became Gen. Torrijos's inseparable shadow, and the holder of all Panama's secrets.
Mr. Noriega, by now a lieutenant colonel, expanded his contacts to include the Cubans -- not to mention the Israelis, the Taiwanese and any other intelligence service that came knocking.
When U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega's moonlighting, intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans.
"Early on in the State Department, we took to calling him the rent-a-colonel, in tribute to his ability to simultaneously milk the antagonistic intelligence services of Cuba and the United States," recalls Francis J. McNeil, who, as deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, first ran across reports about Mr. Noriega in 1977.
"Some of us wondered how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information when he was just as close to the Cubans."
Even at this early stage, drugs caused additional concerns.
During the Nixon administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration became dismayed at the extent of the G-2's connections to arrested drug traffickers.
One DEA agent drew up a list of five options for dealing with Col. Noriega, one of which was assassination.
The head of the DEA at the time, John Ingersoll, scotched the assassination plan.
But he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials, including Mr. Noriega.
Mr. Ingersoll later recalled that Gen. Torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the U.S.
"Everybody was afraid of him," Mr. Ingersoll says.
Mr. Noriega became an even greater threat in 1976, when U.S. intelligence services discovered that he had been buying recordings of electronically monitored conversations from three sergeants working for the U.S. Army's 470th Military Intelligence Group.
The tapes included wiretaps of Gen. Torrijos's own phone, according to American intelligence officials.
"We caught him with his hands on our cookie jar," says former CIA Director Stansfield Turner.
For the first time, the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll -- and the deliberations were intense, Mr. Turner says.
"In the world of intelligence, if you want to get information, you get it from seedy characters.
The question is how much you get tied in with seedy characters so they can extort you."
Intelligence officials to this day worry whether Mr. Noriega sold sensitive information on the recordings to the Cubans or others.
Mr. Turner was troubled enough to cancel the U.S. contract with the rent-a-colonel at the beginning of the Carter administration.
The U.S. soon found new cause for concern: gun-running.
Prosecutors in Southern Florida indicted five Panamanians on charges of illegally running arms to Sandinista rebels trying to overthrow the Nicaraguan government of Mr. Somoza.
They included one of Mr. Noriega's closest friends and business partners, Carlos Wittgreen.
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself.
At the time, though, in 1979, the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy.
Mr. Noriega made plans to fly to Washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the Pentagon.
Dade County and federal authorities, learning that he intended to fly through Miami, made plans to arrest him on the gun-running charges as soon as he hit U.S. soil.
It was a Friday in June.
The Pentagon foiled the plan.
According to military officers at the time, word was passed to Mr. Noriega by his American hosts that the police would be waiting.
On Monday, U.S. officials received a routine, unclassified message from the military group commander in Panama.
"Due to health reasons, Lt. Col. Noriega has elected to postpone his visit to Washington," it read.
Prosecutors in Miami received yet another setback.
Their original indictment against Mr. Wittgreen, the friend of Mr. Noriega, and the other four was dismissed on a technicality.
But now, along with re-indicting Mr. Noriega's pal, they intended to charge Mr. Noriega himself, on allegations that he was involved in the illegal trading of some $2 million in arms.
In January 1980, Jerome Sanford, as assistant U.S. attorney, was summoned to a meeting with a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent assigned to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Miami.
Panamanian dictator Torrijos, he was told, had granted the shah of Iran asylum in Panama as a favor to Washington.
Mr. Sanford was told Mr. Noriega's friend, Mr. Wittgreen, would be handling the shah's security.
It wouldn't be a good idea to indict him -- much less Mr. Noriega, the prosecutor was told.
After prodding from Mr. Sanford, U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed.
"Unfortunately," Mr. Eskenazi wrote in a letter, "those of us in law enforcement in Miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the United States but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control."
The letter, along with a detailed prosecution memo, sat on the desks of Justice officials for months before the case died a quiet death.
"I think if we had been allowed to go ahead then we wouldn't have the problems we have now," Mr. Sanford says.
"If he had been found guilty, we could have stopped him."
In August 1983, Mr. Noriega took over as General and de-facto dictator of Panama, having maneuvered his way to the top only two years after the mysterious death in a plane crash of his old boss Omar Torrijos.
Soon, the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses.
The Reagan administration also put Mr. Noriega's G-2 back on the U.S. payroll.
Payments averaged nearly $200,000 a year from the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency and the CIA.
Although working for U.S. intelligence, Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively.
During the Reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the Cubans and the Sandinistas.
He allegedly entered into Panama's first formal business arrangement with Colombian drug bosses, according to Floyd Carlton, a pilot who once worked for Mr. Noriega and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges.
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House wouldn't act against him, recalls his close ally Jose Blandon, because he had an insurance policy: his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua.
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama.
Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua.
And on at least one occasion, in the spring of 1985, he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua.
Although his help for the Contra cause was limited, it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration, says Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who then served on the Senate Intelligence Committee.
"Noriega played U.S. intelligence agencies and the U.S. government like a violin," he says.
An incident in 1984 suggested one additional means by which Mr. Noriega might have maintained such influence with Washington -- by compromising U.S. officials.
Curtin Windsor, then the ambassador to Costa Rica, recalls being invited to Panama by Mr. Noriega's brother Luis Carlos for a weekend of deep sea fishing and "quiet, serious conversation" on the Aswara Peninsula.
Mr. Windsor notified Everett E. Briggs, the U.S. ambassador to Panama, of the invitation.
"Briggs screamed," Mr. Windsor recalls.
He says Mr. Briggs told him he was being set up for a "honey trap," in which Mr. Noriega would try to involve him in an orgy and then record the event "with sound and video."
Mr. Briggs, on vacation after resigning his position at the National Security Council, couldn't be reached for comment.
As Mr. Noriega's political troubles grew, so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.
For instance, he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party.
But just one month later, he also contributed $100,000 to a Contra leader, according to documents released for Oliver North's criminal trial in Washington, D.C.
Yet, his political setbacks mounted.
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora, his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges.
He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta, a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S., after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder.
And, all the while, Panama's debt problems continued to grow.
Mr. Noriega was growing desperate.
In late 1986, he made an offer he thought the U.S. couldn't refuse.
As recounted in a stipulation that summarized government documents released for the North trial, Mr. Noriega offered to assassinate the Sandinista leadership in exchange "for a promise to help clean up Noriega's image and a commitment to lift the {U.S.} ban on military sales to the Panamanian Defense Forces."
"North," the document went on, referring to Oliver North, "has told Noriega's representative that U.S. law forbade such actions.
The representative responded that Noriega had numerous assets in place in Nicaragua and could accomplish many essential things, just as Noriega had helped {the U.S.} the previous year in blowing up a Sandinista arsenal."
Col. North conveyed the request to his superiors and to Assistant Secretary of State Elliot Abrams, who relayed it to Secretary of State George Shultz.
Mr. Noriega's proposal was turned down.
And Mr. Shultz curtly told Mr. Abrams that the general should be told that only he could repair his tarnished image.
The end of the marriage was at hand.
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega's insurance policy.
The death of CIA Director William Casey and resignation of Oliver North allowed anti-Noriega political forces to gain influence.
Public protests against him were triggered in June 1987 due to charges by Diaz Herrera, his former chief of staff, that Mr. Noriega had stolen the 1984 election and had ordered the killing of Messrs. Spadafora and Torrijos.
Few American officials were willing any longer to defend him.
Lawyers in Miami -- this time working virtually without impediment -- prepared to have him indicted on drug charges in February 1988.
During negotiations with American officials in May 1988 over proposals to drop the U.S. indictments in exchange for his resignation, Mr. Noriega often asked almost plaintively how the Americans, whom he had helped for so many years, could turn against him.
Now, neither side -- the U.S. nor Mr. Noriega -- has an easy out.
President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice.
Mr. Noriega believes he hasn't any alternative but to continue clutching to power.
It is a knock-out battle -- perhaps to the death.
In the end, is Mr. Noriega the political equivalent of Frankenstein's monster, created by a well-intentioned but misguided foreign power?
Not quite, Sen. Leahy contends.
"For short-term gains, people were willing to put up with him.
That allowed him to get stronger and stronger," he says.
"I don't think we created him as much as we fed him, nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong."
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants; their herds are thriving.
But the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better.
At this week's U.N. conference in Lausanne, they imposed a global ivory ban that seeks to overturn local policies.
A Zimbabwean delegate argued that the ban would "guarantee the extinction of the elephant."
Legitimate ranchers, who have an interest in preserving the herds, would go out of business.
Poachers would control the underground trade.
Many delegates were willing to craft a compromise, but U.S. delegate Constance Harriman and others thundered that down.
The Greens from the First World wanted a morality play, not a negotiation.
Fortunately, the nations of southern Africa haven't totally surrendered their sovereignty.
Five countries announced they would not honor what one Zimbabwean delegate wryly called the "made in Switzerland" solution.
In fact, they seemed a mite resentful.
The director of Zimbabwe's Wildlife Department described American conservationists as "fat little puppies from urban environments who don't know a thing about Africa."
That's not fair; they're not all fat.
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev wants to bring the nation's reformist press back into line, blaming it for contributing to the many problems he faces and even suggesting that one liberal editor resign.
Mr. Gorbachev's comments, made at a meeting with Soviet national editors and media executives Friday, indicate his growing frustration with the nation's mounting problems.
According to people who attended, he didn't advocate an end to glasnost, his policy of openness.
But he made clear that the press should show greater responsibility in its reporting and cut back on criticism of his reforms.
The text of his remarks hasn't been published, and editors say they have no instructions as to whether it will be.
Accounts of previous such meetings with media and other groups have been printed, sometimes after a delay of several days.
Although glasnost has given the government-controlled media here much greater freedom to report and criticize, Mr. Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders still regard newspapers and TV as important propaganda tools they can use at will.
According to participants at the meeting and Soviet journalists who were later briefed by their editors, Mr. Gorbachev blamed the press for fueling a nationwide mood of despondency.
In particular, he complained about some articles this summer that openly discussed the possibility of a coup or civil war in the Soviet Union, and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by printing stories about impending shortages.
He singled out the daily Izvestia and the weekly Argumenty i Fakty, and also gave stinging criticism of Yuri Afanasyev, a leading reformist historian who has written articles attacking the Communist Party.
Among other things, Mr. Gorbachev questioned whether Mr. Afanasyev should remain in the party.
The meeting lasted a little under two hours and was attended by most members of the ruling Politburo.
There was no other speaker apart from the Soviet leader, and those attacked weren't given the opportunity to defend themselves.
Mr. Afanasyev, who isn't an editor, didn't attend.
According to participants, Mr. Gorbachev was particularly incensed by an article on the front page of Argumenty i Fakty this month that examined the popularity of members of the Soviet Parliament.
The piece was based on a survey of 1,500 readers' letters and contained some criticism of Mr. Gorbachev himself.
The newspaper wrote that readers assessed his role both positively and negatively.
It said many thanked the Soviet leader for his "self-control, modesty, culture and ability to hear a speaker out."
But others criticized him, "for imposing his opinion on other deputies, giving commentaries to many speeches, holding elections with no choice of candidate, putting pressure on the voting process and maneuvering between the right and left wings" of the Parliament.
All this, the paper quoted readers as saying, "has seriously weakened his authority."
The Soviet leader apparently suggested to Argumenty i Fakty's editor, Vyacheslav Starkov, that he should resign.
The comment, which Mr. Starkov relayed to his staff, has sparked anger and bitterness at the paper.
Mr. Starkov has been summoned to see the Kremlin's ideology chief, Vadim Medvedev, in the near future, and may discover then if he is to be fired.
Izvestia was criticized for a front-page article last Wednesday that took a sharp look at the Parliament's activities.
It attacked the level of a debate on the private-sector cooperative movement, saying "the discussion was more like a riot than a civilized exchange of points of view."
And it questioned the speed with which the Parliament was adopting new legislation, often with a minimum of debate.
Speaking to foreign reporters, Ivan Laptev, Izvestia's editor, sought to play down Mr. Gorbachev's criticism, but he acknowledged that his paper had been singled out.
The Parliament yesterday approved legislation that imposes new restrictions on the cooperative movement, enabling local authorities to set ceilings for prices and preventing the "speculative" sale of goods in short supply for prices higher than that charged by the state.
Walter Sisulu and the African National Congress came home yesterday.
After 26 years in prison, Mr. Sisulu, the 77-year-old former secretary-general of the liberation movement, was dropped off at his house by a prison services' van just as the sun was coming up.
At the same time, six ANC colleagues, five of whom were arrested with him in 1963 and sentenced to life imprisonment, were reunited with their families at various places around the country.
And as the graying men returned to their homes, the ANC, outlawed in South Africa since 1960 and still considered to be the chief public enemy by the white government, defiantly returned to the streets of the country's black townships.
A huge ANC flag, with black, green and gold stripes, was hoisted over the rickety gate at Mr. Sisulu's modest house, while on the street out front, boys displayed the ANC colors on their shirts, caps and scarves.
At the small four-room home of Elias Motsoaledi, a leading ANC unionist and a former commander in the group's armed wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe, well-wishers stuck little ANC flags in their hair and a man tooted on an antelope horn wrapped in ANC ribbons.
"I am happy to see the spirit of the people," said Mr. Sisulu, looking dapper in a new gray suit.
As the crowd outside his home shouted "ANC, ANC," the old man shot his fists into the air.
"I'm inspired by the mood of the people."
Under the laws of the land, the ANC remains an illegal organization, and its headquarters are still in Lusaka, Zambia.
But the unconditional release of the seven leaders, who once formed the intellectual and organizational core of the ANC, is a de facto un-banning of the movement and the rebirth of its internal wing.
"The government can never put the ANC back into the bottle again," said Cassim Saloojee, a veteran anti-apartheid activist on hand to welcome Mr. Sisulu.
"Things have gone too far for the government to stop them now.
There's no turning back."
There was certainly no stopping the tide of ANC emotion last night, when hundreds of people jammed into the Holy Cross Anglican Church in Soweto for what became the first ANC rally in the country in 30 years.
Deafening chants of "ANC" and "Umkhonto we Sizwe" shook the church as the seven aging men vowed that the ANC would continue its fight against the government and the policies of racial segregation on all fronts, including the armed struggle.
And they called on the government to release Nelson Mandela, the ANC's leading figure, who was jailed with them and remains in prison.
Without him, said Mr. Sisulu, the freeing of the others "is only a half-measure."
President F.W. de Klerk released the ANC men -- along with one of the founding members of the Pan Africanist Congress, a rival liberation group -- as part of his efforts to create a climate of trust and peace in which his government can begin negotiations with black leaders over a new constitution aimed at giving blacks a voice in national government.
But Pretoria may instead be creating a climate for more turmoil and uncertainty in this racially divided country.
As other repressive governments, particularly Poland and the Soviet Union, have recently discovered, initial steps to open up society can create a momentum for radical change that becomes difficult, if not impossible, to control.
As the days go by, the South African government will be ever more hard pressed to justify the continued imprisonment of Mr. Mandela as well as the continued banning of the ANC and enforcement of the state of emergency.
If it doesn't yield on these matters, and eventually begin talking directly to the ANC, the expectations and promise raised by yesterday's releases will turn to disillusionment and unrest.
If it does, the large number of right-wing whites, who oppose any concessions to the black majority, will step up their agitation and threats to take matters into their own hands.
The newly released ANC leaders also will be under enormous pressure.
The government is watching closely to see if their presence in the townships leads to increased anti-government protests and violence; if it does, Pretoria will use this as a reason to keep Mr. Mandela behind bars.
Pretoria hasn't forgotten why they were all sentenced to life imprisonment in the first place: for sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government.
In addition, the government is figuring that the releases could create a split between the internal and external wings of the ANC and between the newly freed leaders and those activists who have emerged as leaders inside the country during their imprisonment.
In order to head off any divisions, Mr. Mandela, in a meeting with his colleagues before they were released, instructed them to report to the ANC headquarters in Lusaka as soon as possible.
The men also will be faced with bridging the generation gap between themselves and the country's many militant black youths, the so-called young lions who are anxious to see the old lions in action.
Says Peter Mokaba, president of the South African Youth Congress: "We will be expecting them to act like leaders of the ANC."
They never considered themselves to be anything else.
At last night's rally, they called on their followers to be firm, yet disciplined, in their opposition to apartheid.
"We emphasize discipline because we know that the government is very, very sensitive," said Andrew Mlangeni, another early Umkhonto leader who is now 63.
"We want to see Nelson Mandela and all our comrades out of prison, and if we aren't disciplined we may not see them here with us."
We don't know who is winning the drug war in Latin America, but we know who's losing it -- the press.
Over the past six months, six journalists have been killed and 10 kidnapped by drug traffickers or leftist guerrillas -- who often are one and the same -- in Colombia.
Over the past 12 years, at least 40 journalists have died there.
The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country.
The slaughter in Colombia was very much on the minds of 450 editors and publishers from Latin America, the United States, the Caribbean and Canada attending the 45th general assembly of the Inter-American Press Association in Monterrey, Mexico, this week.
On Tuesday the conference got word of another atrocity, the assassination in Medellin of two employees of El Espectador, Colombia's second-largest newspaper.
The paper's local administrator, Maria Luz Lopez, was shot dead, and her mother wounded, while her car was stopped for a red light.
An hour later, the paper's circulation manager, Miguel Soler, was shot and killed near his home.
The drug lords who claimed responsibility said they would blow up the Bogota newspaper's offices if it continued to distribute in Medellin.
They bombed the Bogota offices last month, destroying its computer and causing $2.5 million in damage.
El Espectador has been a special target because of the extraordinary courage of its publisher and his staff.
At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: "We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking.
They want to terrify the press and in particular El Espectador because it has always been a torchbearer in this war."
This comes from a man whose brother, Guillermo, was murdered in 1986.
The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions.
Many will use a common editorial.
A final statement yesterday said: "While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination."
The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before.
"Noriega has closed every independent newspaper, radio and television station and arrested, tortured or forced into exile a long list of reporters," the statement declared.
It added: "In Cuba, public enemy No. 1 of press freedoms in the hemisphere, repression of journalists both Cuban and foreign is worse than ever."
And in Nicaragua, promises of press freedom by the Sandinistas "have not materialized."
As it happens, the four countries cited, Colombia, Cuba, Panama and Nicaragua, are not only where the press is under greatest attack but also are linked by the drug trade and left-wing politics.
Noriega is close to Castro and may once have been his agent.
Sandinistas Thomas Borge and the Ortega brothers are Castro proteges; he backed their takeover of Nicaragua.
In Colombia, the drug-financed guerrillas trying to seize the country and destroy democracy include M-19, which Castro has clearly backed.
Robert Merkel, a former U.S. attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel.
"If the cartel succeeds in blackmailing the Colombian authorities into negotiations, the cartel will be in control and Fidel can exploit his past relationships with them," he told the Journal's David Asman recently.
The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing.
This week, the government arrested Jose Abello Silva, said to be the fourth-ranking cartel leader.
He will probably be extradited to the U.S. for trial under an extradition treaty President Virgilia Barco has revived.
Later, another high-ranking trafficker, Leonidas Vargas, was arrested and 1,000 pounds of dynamite seized.
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.
President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.
It might not be a bad idea to do that sooner, rather than later.
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance.
Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that.