Preface
This hand-book of Africa, which is entitled "African Almanac" is the first of its kind to be published in Ethiopia.
Even though it does not contain all details and particulars as "World Almanacs" do, it is believed that the future publications of this "African Almanac" would be complete and detailed, in the proper sense of the word "Almanac."
This year, seventeen African countries have achieved their independence. That is why the year 1960 came to be known as the "African year."
For the same reason, there is no doubt that the year "1960" should be given a special importance in the history of Africa.
Thus, His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie I, Emperor of Ethiopia, a staunch supporter of African freedom, has ordered that this first "African Almanac" should be prepared as an expression of His deep satisfaction during this "African year," and dedicates the book in honour of the new African Independent countries and of those who are struggling for their independence.
ETHIOPIA
Geographical Situation:Situated in the North-east of Africa, Ethiopia is an Empire dating back over 3000 years as an independent state.Its boundaries are: in the north, the Republic of Sudan and the Red Sea, in the south, Kenya and the Somali Republic, in the east, French Somaliland and the Somali Republic, and in the west, the Republic of Sudan.
Area: 450,000 sq. miles.
Population:20,000,000
Capital City:ADDIS ABABA, other important towns are: Asmara, Massawa, Assab, Harar, Dire-Dawa, Jimma, Gambela, Gondar etc.
Language: Official in Amharic, main dialects are, Galigna, Tigrigna, Somali etc.
Government: Constitutional Monarchy, with a Parliament composed of two Houses - the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.
Members of the Chamber of deputies are elected by a universal adult suffrage for a period of four years, after which they may be eligible for re-election.
The present Chamber consists of 210 Deputies.
The members of the Senate are appointed by the Emperor. The number of Senators does not exceed one-half of the total number of Deputies.
All laws are approved by the Parliament and ratified by the Emperor.
Ruler: H.I.M. Emperor Haile Selassie I.
His Imperial Majesty, descendant of the oldest and longest royal line in recorded history, ascended the throne on November 2, 1930, with the title of 'Hail Selassie I, Emperor of Ethiopia.'
Born on July 23, 1892, at Ejersa Goro, Harar Province, Emperor Haile Selassie is the great grandson of King Sahle Selassie who was a descendant of King Solomon and Queen of Sheba. His father His Highness Ras Makonnen, a hero of the famous battle of Adwa, in 1896, was Emperor Menelik's trusted diplomat and a general of great valour. Upon the completion of His education, during the early years of His age, Emperor Haile Selassie was called upon to serve His country in many outstanding posts, before He, finally became the leader of the country.
He led Ethiopia to become a member of the League of Nations in 1923.
Seven months after his coronation on November 2, 1930. Emperor Haile Selassie, He, of his own volition, graciously decreed the first written constitution and Parliament in the history of Ethiopia, making himself a constitutional monarch.
In 1935, the Italian Fascists launched their aggression against Ethiopia, and in June 1936 Emperor Haile Selasie, before the League of Nations at Geneva, personally pleaded the cause of his country and coincidentally that of international morality. Although the League of Nations put up a deaf ear to his country and coincidentally that of international morality. Although the League of Nations put up a deaf ear to his historic appeal, Emperor Haile Selassie never lost confidence. It was primarily through his wise judgment and astute statesmanship that the day of liberation came, when on May 5, 1941, five years after the Fascist invasion, He rode triumphantly back into the capital of his Empire, at the head of his conquering patriots, with the help of the British troops.
Since the liberation, both in internal and external affairs, His Imperial Majesty has proved to be the dynamic architect of Modern Ethiopia. Upon his return, He found the country in a war-torn condition, ad soon He embarked on a huge programme to give life to the nation. He opened new schools, built modern hospitals, constructed new roads and improved communication facilities. On November 2, 1955, on the day of His Silver Jubilee Coronation anniversary, He of His own will, once again gave a new revised constitution, thereby, granting the country a general election of the basis of universal adult suffrage. Freedom of press and speech is also granted in the constitution.
A staunch supporter of the U.N., Emperor Haile Selassie, inaugurating the U.N. Economic Commission for Africa, said, "The United Nations is a living and tangible testimony to the value of cooperative efforts among all men to improve their way of life and preserve peace." Above all, He has committed Himself to the preservation of two principle - "Collective Security" and "independence for oppressed peoples."
A supporter of African Nationalism, Emperor Hail Selassie welcomes and entertains, at his court, many African Nationalists, with whom He exchanges ideas. He has devoted Himself to the cause of African freedom, ever since be returned from Britain in 1941, where be went on exile, seeking outside help against the fascist aggression in His country.
Speaking of African independence, on November 2, 1958, on the occasion of the 28th anniversary of His Coronation, He said, "Time has demonstrated that those Africans, who believed that the existence of an independent Ethiopia would open the door to freedom for all of Africa, were not mistaken in their beliefs.
The family of independent nations in Africa is today growing apace, and no power on earth can now arrest this process."
Economic Development: Ethiopia is mainly an agricultural country. Due to the fertility of most of the country, many of its regions yield two crops a year. The chief crops are maiz, wheat, barley, rye, cotton, sugar-cane, millet, hemp, teff (the common bread grain), and coffee.
Ethiopia has embarked on a plan to set up industries which produce domestic necessities. It exports coffee, hides and skins, cereals, oil seeds, meat, gold and platinum. Ethiopia imports textiles, iron, steel, machinery, motor vehicles, agricultural machinery and tractors, pharmaceutical and petroleum products.
Monetary unit: Ethiopian Dollar.
Religion:Mainly Christian (Official Religion) and a number of Moslems.
Defence: Ethiopia has re-organized her armed forces into three parts. The ground force comprises the Army and the Imperial Body Guard. The Air Force in will organized and equipped with jet fighter-bombers. Though, the navy is still young, it has shown on active progress to be developed. In addition to these, the Territorial Army is being established. Projects are underway towards the expansion of the defence system which is controlled by the Ministry of National Defense.
LIBERIA
Geographical Situation:The State was proclaimed an independent Republic on July 26, 1847. Liberia is situated in West Africa, and is bounded in the north by Guinea and Ivory Coast, in the west by Sierra Leone, in the south by the Atlantic, and in the east by Ivory Coast.
Area: 43,000 sq. miles.
Population:2,500,000
Capital:MONROVIA, other important towns are: Marshall, Harper and Bachanan.
Language: Official in English, tribal dialects are also spoken.
Government: Republic.
The Constitution of Liberia is similar to that of U.S.A. The Legislative power consists of two separate branches: the Senate and the House of Representatives, which together form the "Legislature.' Members of the House of Representatives and Senators are elected by a universal suffrage for a period of four and six years respectively. The executive power is vested on a President, elected for a period of eight years, after which he may be re-elected for a term of four years, as many times as the people wish to elect him.
Head of State:  President William V (acanarat) S (hadrach) Tubman. "the Maker of Modern Liberia." took office as President at the beginning of 1944  and has stayed on ever since.
Though his True Whig party has ruled the country since 1870, President Tubman's triumph is counted in Liberia as something very personal.
Liberia, was settled in 1822 by freedom seeking Americans of African origin from 27 American states, the colonization societies being motivated by a great desire to found a Christian nation in Africa.
President Tubman's aim from the beginning has been to weld the many different racial groups into one homogeneous nation. He has traveled extensively in the backwoods (the first president to do so), has given these people the vote and is encouraging them to take a more important part in public life and in the government.
Economically, his hope has been to cram into his 16 years of office "a hundred years of progress and modernization," concentrating on health, public welfare, education, road building and the development of industry, commerce and natural resources. He facilitates concessions to foreign firms whenever they are going to be a benefit to Liberia as well. Industrial undertakings begun under his regime, have transformed great untried areas and galvanized the people into taking a more direct interest in world affairs.
President Tubman, who was born on November 29, 1895, descended from settlers, in known among his people as "Bodor Shad" (Brother Shadrach). Unanimous votes in his favour on big occasions in this one-party country are often described in the Liberian press and "expressions of a nation's gratitude."
Economic Development: The Agricultural and Industrial potential of the country is being extended. Principal exports are crude rubber, iron ore, raw gold, piassava palm, kernels, palm oil and small quantities of cocas & coffee. Diamonds are also exported. The chief imports are metals, machinery, rice, tobacco, manufactured goods, provisions, salt, hardware glass, earthenware, building materials, vehicles and petroleum products.
Religion:Christians (Official) with Moslems & Animists.
Defence: Liberia's army of about 4,000 men is organized on militia basis.
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA
Geographical Situation:The Union of South Africa which came into being on May 31, 1910, is g97hded in the south by the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, in the west by the Atlantic and South West Africa. In the north by Bechuanaland and Southern Rhodesia, and in the cast by the Indian Ocean. .
Area: 472,359 sq. miles.
Population:14,418,000 (of which 3 millions are Europeans).
Capital:Pretorin and Cape-toun. Other big towns and Johannesburg. Durban. Port Elizabeth, East London and Kimberly.
Language: Official - English and Afrikaans. The natives speak Bantu dialects.
Government: The governor general represents the Queen of United Kingdom, who is sovereign also over the Union of South Africa. But, in October of this year, a referendum which was voted only by the white population was held to change the status of the Union into a Republic, which will be declared on May 31, 1961. The prime Minister is more powerful and has almost a dictatorial authority.
The government of South Africa is entirely dominated by the European population, mainly composed of Boers (Dutch originated South African whites) and English descendants. The original South African constitution does not guarantee the white supremacy over the colourd people, which the present rulers of the country practice as their main policy. This policy of apartheid is rejected by the coloured people who as a result staged political demonstrations several times: and in March 1960 a brutal massacre of innocent natives was done by fascist whites and militant rulers of the Union. This brutal action was condemned by all peoples of the world.
There are two African Political parties behind the massive resistance against apartheid. These African parties are:
The Pan African people's Congress
African National Congress.
Head of Government: Dr. Hendrik Frensch Verwoerd, 59-year-old Prime Minister of South Africa, is the chief advocate of Apartheid, by which is meant the strict segregation of the 3,000,000 white and 11,000,000 black people of the Union.
To the rest of the world and to the basic principles of human freedom and equality, apartheid becomes inacceptable, but to him (to Dr. Verwoerd), apartheid is designed "for happiness, security and stability, by providing the Bento, as well as the whites, with their own home, language and administration."
He believes it will bring "peaceful co-existence and justice to all people in our beloved Homeland."
South Africa is not, in fact, Dr. Verwoerd's homeland. He was born in Amsterdam of Dutch parents, but the family settled in the Union when be was still a baby.
His early career was spent as a Professor of Applied Psychology, and of Sociology and Social Work at Stellen-bosch University (1927-39).
His introduction to politics came through his editorship of the Nationalist party newspaper Die Transyaler (1937-48).
He entered the South African Parliament as a Senator in 1948, and two years later became Minister for Native Affairs.
For eight years be devoted himself to a series of measures enforcing Apartheid, over-riding hostility from the Africans, from Churches, and from some politicians and businessmen.
As Premier, Dr. Verwoerd has worked to speed the day when his country will become a Republic, a policy now endorsed by a referendum.
By this step, like his "Bantustan" segretation laws, be seea as a move to preserve "This frontier outpost in the Dark Continent."
Dr Verwoerd was shot twice in the head while opening a trade fair at Johannesburg in April, 1960.
Three months later, fully recovered, he said: "We believe we were spared by a Higher Hand, not for our selves but to render a service to the people and to the Fatherland."
Economic Development: The Union of South Africa is well developed agriculturally and commercially. It is the largest producer as well as consumer of necessary materials, in the whole continent of Africa. Its gross national income is the highest in the continent, followed by that of Nigeria and the former Belgian territory of Congo. The Union exports iron, gold, diamonds, uranium, coal, wool, meat, fruits and other items. It imports industrial machinery, motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products, petroleum products, consumer goods, furnitares and textiles.
Currency: South African Pound.
Religion:Christian & Animist.
Defence: South African has its own Air Force and Navy. Its army is well organized. The Ministry of Defence is in charge of these forces.
United Arab Republic
Geographical SituationThe U.A.R. came into being on February 1, 1958, after the federation of Syria with Egypt. The Egyptian region of the U.A.R. as ,an African country (which achieved independence on Feb. 24, 1922), borders, the Mediterranean in the north, the Gulf of Akaba and Israel in the east, Sudan & the Red Sea in the south, and Iibya in the west.
Area:Egyptian region of U.A.R. is 386.190 sq. miles.
Population:24,000,000
Capital:CAIRO, other important cities are Alexandria, Suez, p.ort Said, Luxor, Ismaelia and Gaza.
Language Arabic
Government:Republic
The United Arab Republic has a government system of which executive power is vested in the President. The National Union, which is the Parliament, is filled by a universal franchise from both regions of the Republic. The U.A.R. Consisting of two regions: Egypt and Syria, has in the capitals of both regions an executive council appointed by presidential decree. This executive council has the competence to examine and study matters pertaining to the execution of the general policy in the Region.
Head of State: President Gamal Abdel Nasser
Abdel Gamal Nasser, first President of the first Egyptian Republic and now President of the United Arab Republic, is one of the most inf1uential leaders in the Arab world and a key figure in Middle-East affairs.
The son of a postal department employee, he was born at Beni Mor, Assiut Province, on January 15, 1918, and graduated from the Egyptian Military Academy. He was an ardent nationalist from his youth and during the Palestine War of 1948/49 - in which he fought and was wounded - he denounced a national arms scandal.
In 1952 he was one of the chief organizers of the army coup which drove King Farouk from his throne, but he first remained in the background, leaving the public leadership to General Neguib. He soon emerged as the decisive figure in the Army council of the revolution and ousted General Neguib, when the latter tried to end the military rule and return to a parliamentary system.
He was elected President for six years in 1956 and is chairman of the sole political party, the National Union.
In the summer of 1956, President Nasser seized the Suez Canal under a nationalization decree and weathered the storm of the Anglo-French armed intervention which followed Israel’s invasion of the Sinai Peninsula and his rejection of an Anglo-French ultimatum to stop the fight¬ing. Under world pressure through the United Nations, the Anglo-French forces withdrew and' Egypt kept the Canal.
In 1958 he became President of the United Arab Re¬public, created from the states of Syria and Egypt, with which the independent kingdom of Yemen federated. He maintains a neutralist position between the great power bloes.
Economic Development: The U.A.R., despite its being an agricultural country, has now mobilized all its efforts to industrialize the state.
Its trade is gradually developing, and it imports such as con¬sumer goods, industrial machineries and constructional materials, iron and steel, agricultural commodities, phar¬maceutical products and fuel. It exports cotton, cement, goods, petroleum and some other items. Monetary unit: Egyptian Pound.
Religion:Moslem with Christian minority
Defence: The United Arab Republic has reorganized its armed forces into three services. The army is 130,000 man strong and is well equipped. The Air Force has different made aircraft in numbers. The Navy has many ships of different types and include submarines.
Libya
Geographical Situation: The North African Kingdom of Libya became an independent sovereign on Dec. 24, 1951. It is hounded in the north by the Mediterranean, in the south by Niger and Chad Republic, in the west by Algeria and Tunisia, in the east by the Egyptian region of U.A.R.
Area 680,000 sq. miles
Population 1,153,000
Capital TRIPOLI and BENGAZI, other important towns are: Homscousabt, Derna, Barke and Tobrouk
Language Official is Arabic, Berber and Italian are also spoken
GovernmentConstitutional monarchy, federating three provinces. Government is a two-chamber parliament. The Senate equally divided between the three provinces, is nominated half by the king and half by the three Provincial Legislative Councils. The House of the Representatives is an elected body. The three Provinces of T'ripolitania, Cyre¬naica 'and the Fezzan are each administered by a Govern¬or, assisted by an Executive and a Legislative Council.
Ruler: H.M. King Idris I.
Born on March 13 1890, His Majesty Kind Idris is the hereditary religious leader of the Senussi Muslem brotherhood and was proclaimed King on December 3, 1950.
Part of the Ottoman Empire for many years, the three territories were takne y the Italians in the 1911-12 war. During Italy’s Fascist regime, Kind Idriss (then Emir) found refuge in Egypt, but he kept in close contact with his lieutenants.
In World War II a desert war was fought out in Libya, the British Eighth Army being assisted by a native military force raised by Kind Idriss.
His grandfather, Muhammed ibn-‘Ali Al-Senussi, founded the Senussi sect for the purification and propagation of Islam. Today it symbolizes the political loyality of the nation and the successful fight for independence.
Economic Development Libya is working to expand its economy by improving its agricultural conditions: and light industries are being established to meet the demand of the country. Very recently oil has been exploited and its potentiality has paved a good road to Libya’s prosperity.
Libya imports textile goods, cereals and machinery. It exports palm dates, maiz and recently some oil. Monetary unit: Libya Pound.
Religion:Moslem and few Christians
Defence: In 1953 Libya concluded a treaty of Alliance and friendship with Britain. Libya has a limited size of army, and Britain has supplied her with craft and offices to establish a naval training school.
Sudan
Geographical Situation: The republic of Sudan proclaimed its independence on January 1, 1956. It boundaries are in the north, the Egyptian region of the U.A.R and Libya, in the east, Ethiopia and the Red Sea, in the south, Congo Republic (Leopoldville) Kenya and Uganda, and in the west, Chad and Central African Republic
Area:968,400,000 sq. miles
Population:11,400,000
Capital: KHARTOUM, other important towns are: Omdurman, Kassala, Port Sudan etc.
Language: Official is Arabic, English and different tribal tongues are also spoken
Government:Sovereign Republic.
After the military takeover in November 1958, Marshal Ibrahim Abboud came into power as President of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces and Prime Minister of the Republic of Sudan.
In December 1959, President Abboud created a con¬stitutional Reform Commission under Chief Justice Abu Rauat, saying that he was considering means through which the citizens could play a more effective part in the government of the country.
The Council of Ministers. whose chairman is the Prime Minister, EI Ferik Abboud, exercises the functions of the government.
The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, presided over by Marshal Abbound, is the highest ruling body in the Sudan, and is composed, purely of military leaders.
The council of Ministers, on the other hand, is composed partly of military leaders who are also members of the Supreme Council, and partly of civilians who are not members of the Supreme Council.
Head of State:General (Ferik) Ibrahim Abbound.
General Abbound is the president of the Supreme council of Armed Forces, Prime Minister and Minister of Defence.
General Abbound, British trained Commander of the Army, rose to power in a bloodless coup on November 17, 1958. When he relieved the Prime Minister, Abdullah Kahlil and his colleagues of their Posts, General Abbound said the parliamentary democracy was suffering from political wrangling and self-seeking leaders, and the army was putting an end to corruption and bringing back security and stability for all.
Born in Mohammed Gol of the Red Sea, on October 26, 1900, General Abbound is a military engineer who has passed through all army commissioned ranks to colonel and has held corps and staff appointments.
General (Ferik) Ibrahim Abbound has his elementary education in Sudan, and in 1915 he joined the Gordon Memorial College at Khartoum, where he studied for three years. After a long military service he was appointed General in 1956.
Later in 1958 he became Al Ferik or Marshal of Sudanese Armed forces.
During the Second World War he commanded the Sudan Defense Force in the Eritrean (Northern Ethiopia) and North African Campaigns.
Economic Development: Sudan is building dams on the Nile for electric power and agricultural irrigations. It is expanding its economic development mostly in agriculture. The most spectacular example of successful irrigation techniques in the Sudan is the Gazira, where 1,000,000 artificially watered acres produce the bulk of the cotton crop. Work is proceeding rapidly on the Managil Extension which will draw water from the Senar Dam and irrigate an adjoining area nearly equal to Gezira in size.
It exports cotton, cotton-seeds, gum, hides and some cereals. Principal imports of Sudan are textiles, iron and steel ware, motor vehicles, machinery, flour, coffee, bags and sacks, petroleum products, medicines and tobacco.
Monetary unit: Sudanese PoundS.
Religion:Moslem with Christian minority
Defence: Sudan has a well organized army
Morocco
Geographical Situation: Morocco, which became independent on March 2, 1956, is situated in North African. Its boundaries are in the north the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean sea, in the east Algeria, n the South Spanish Sahara and Algeria and in the west the Atlantic.
Area:174,500 sq. miles
Population:10,000,000
Capital: RABAT, other important towns are: Tangier, Casablanca, Fez and Marakesh
Language: Official Arabic: Berber and French are also spoken
Government:Constitutional monarch. In May, 1958. H.M. King Mohamed V promulgated a royal charter providing for the establishment of a Deliberatice Assembly which is to share with him the exercise of legislative power.
The character also stressed the principle of individual and collective responsibility of Cabinet Ministers to the monarch, and provides for elections for rural and municipal councils which in turn elect representatives to the Deliberative Assembly.
Ruler H.M. King Mohammed Ben Youssef V.
King Mohammed V of Morocco is 49 years of age and is one of the few monarchs who has successfully led a revolutionary movement.
As Sultan Sidi Mohammed been Yussef the French released him fro jail in 1928, at the age of 17, so that he might succeed his fathr on the throne of Morocco. Being a traditional Arab ruler, however, did not prevent him keeping in the closest possible touch with Moroccan political leaders. This resulted in his becoming leader of the all powerful nationalist Istiqlal Party formed during the war.
The French deposed him in 1953 when he had the enmity both of the French settlers and the hereditary tribal leaders, led by El Glaoui, aged Pasha of Marrakesh. He was exiled to Madagascar. His absence, however, only turned him into a national hero and the French brought him back to Morocco in November 1955, Four months later he was leading Morocco to independence and on August 18, 1957 he was enthroned as Kid.
His fighting, revolutionary past enables him to hold together the warlike berber tribesmen of the mountains and the new proletariat of the towns.
His advocacy of new methods of farming and modern methods in education, put into practice with his own children, have from time to time aroused the resentment of orthodox Muslims.
Economic Development: Morocco has made good progress in agricultural and mineral exploitation. Dams are under construction to utilize electric power and water irrigation system. Morocco exports cereals, fruits and vegetables, espartograss, skins and hides, wool, phosphates, manganese, iron ore, lead and zinc, it imports petroleum products, agricultural and other machinery, medicines, cotton goods and spices.
Monetary unit – Moroccan Franc.
Religion:Moslem with Christian minority
Defence: Since its independence in 1956, Morocco has a well organized army of about 20,000 man-strong.
Tunisia
Geographical Situation: The North African State of Tunisia proclaimed its independence on March 26, 1956. Its boundaries are in the north and in the east, the Mediterranean, in the south, Libya, and in the west, Algeria.
Area:48,39 sq. miles
Population:,800,000
Capital: TUNIS, other important towns are, La Goulette, Sfax, Sousse and Kairouan
Language: Arabic is official, Berber and French are also spoken
Government:Republic The executive power is vested by the Constitution in the President, who is elected for five years and may be re-elected for two additional terms. Legislative power is vested in a National Assembly elected by a universal suffrage, but neither the President nor his Cabinet are responsible to the assembly.
Head of State:Habib Ben Ali Bourguiba
President Bourguiba of Tunisia is generally regarded by Tunisians as the man who has done the most in the struggle for his country’s independence.
He has expressed a deep affection for France and has made it clear in political campaigns directed by other Arab states or by the Russians that he is firmly attached to the West.
He was born in a small fishing village near Tunis in 1903, went to a French lycee, read law in Paris and married a French woman.
Returning to Tunisia, he became one of the leaders in the Dominant Destour Muslim freedom movement and then in the more Westernised but outlawed Neo-Destour, which he helped to from, exiled by the French and imprisoned, his devotion to his second country (France) remained undiminished. When the Germans released him in 1942 in the hope that he would bring the Tunisians to their side, he did the reverse, his sole object being to rid Tunisia of foreign rule.
After the war the French imprisoned him again. But he negotiated for internal autonomy and got it in 1955. Returning from exile, he became the first Prime Minister of independent Tunisia in 1956. In July 1957, wlen Tunisia became a Republic he was chosen as the first President.
In view of his own struggle for freedom, he sympathizes with the Algerian nationalists but always tries to help their relations with France.
One of his declared aims is to build a North African Federation Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria on the principle with inter-dependence.
Economic Development: Agriculturally developed Tunisia, has 80% of her trade with France and Algeria. Mining is the country’s most important industry. The outstanding mineral wealth consists of phosphates, iron, lead and zinc. She exports cereals, olive oil, phosphates, iron ore, lead, wine and many other items. Tunisia imports cotton made goods and silks, iron and steel, machinery, farm commodities and provisions.
Monetary unit: Tunisian dinar
Religion:Predominantly Moslem with Christian minority
Defence: Tunisia has a limited army
Ghana
Geographical Situation: Situated in the West coast of Africa, Ghana, which won its independence on March 6, 1957, is bounded in the west by Ivory Coast, in the north by Upper Volta, in the east by Togo and in the south by the Atlantic Ocean.
Area:9,000 sq. miles
Population:6,690,70
Capital: ACCRA, other important towns are: Secondi, Takoradi, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Koforidua and Ho.
Language: Official is English, more than 60 dialects are also spoken
Government:Republic
The legislative power is exercised by a Parliament which consists of the President and the National Assembly. The President is elected by a direct vote of the people for a period of five years, and his election is linked with the election of members to the National Assembly, by a universal adult suffrage, in such a way that the President will be the leader of the party which commands a majority in Parliament. The President is the Head of State as well as Head of Government, and he is assisted by a Cabinet drawn form members of Parliament.
Head of State:Dr. Kwame (Francis Nwia-Kofi) Nkrumah
Dr Nkrumah is Prime Minister and President of the Republic of Ghana. He was in prison o charges of sedition and fomenting the so called, an illegal general strike, when his Convention People’s Party swept to pear in the first general elections in February 1951. He was released by the British governor to form a government.
Son of a goldsmith, Dr. Nkrumah was born on September 21, 1909. He was educated at mission schools and at the teacher training college at Achimota. In 1935 he left the Gold Coast as it was then called, to study at Lincoln and Pennsylvania Universities in the United States. He also studied in England at London University where he joined Gray’s Inn to study law. While in London, he played a leading part in several West African organizations. At the end of 1947 he returned home to become general secretary of the newly-formed United Gold Coast Convention the first popular nationalist movement for self-government founded by Dr, J.B. Danquah.
In the summer of 1949, impatient with the progress, he broke away from the U.G.C.C. and formed the Convention People’s Party to campaign for immediate self-government. He is now life chairman.
After his election nsuccess while in prison, Dr. Nkrumah was made the leader of government business, and in 1952 was given the title of Prime Minister. He became president of Ghana when it became a Republic on July 1, 1960.
In the preface to his autobiography, “Ghana,” (1957). Dr. Nkrumah wrote: “Ghana’s independence will be incomplete unless it is linked up with the liberation of other countries in Africa.”
In a radio broadcast on July 1. 1960, after he became President, he pledged that Ghana would not relax efforts to forester the concept of African unity and the creation of a real political Union of African States.
Economic Development: Ghana’s economy is based on cocoa production, but plans are well advanced to carry out the Volta river dam project to furnish power for an aluminum industry and other manufactures. Main imports are manufactured goods and constructional materials. Main exports are cocoa, gold, manganese ore, timber and diamonds.
Monetary unit: Ghanaian pound.
Religion:Moslem, Christian and Animist
Defence: Ghana has recently established Air and Naval Schools which are the nucleus of her non-ground forces. The army is organized by British Officers.
Guinea
Geographical Situation: Guinea proclaimed itself an independent state of October 2, 1958, and is situated in the West coast of Africa. It is bounded in the north by Portuguese Guinea and Senegal, in the north-east by the Mali Republic, in the east by Ivory Coast, in the south by Liberia and Sierra Leone and in the west by the Atlantic.
Area:97,000 sq. miles
Population:2,500,000
Capital: CONAKRY, other important towns are: Kankan, Boke, Milo etc
Language: Official is French, tribal dialects are also spoken
Government:Republic
The constitutional law, voted by the National Assembly, was voted on November 10, 1958, and was promulgated on the 12th, of the same month.
The president of the Republic assisted by a Cabinet, exercises the power of the Government f the Republic. Re-legible the President of the Republic is elected by a universal suffrage for a period of seven years. He alone is responsible to the National Assembly for the policy of his Cabinet.
Head of State:President Sekou Toure was born on January 9, 1922 the son of a farmer. He was raised as a Moslem. His formal education ended in his expulsion (for leading a food strike) from the Georges Poiret Technical College in Conakry at the age of 15. He completed his education himself.
He rose to his present prominence in the country by way of the trade union movement. In 1948 he was elected secretary general of the territorial union of the Confederation General de Travail (C.G.T) the largest of the three French trade union federation. Two years later he became secretary general of the confederation’s co-ordinating committee for French West Africa and Togoland.
In 1946 he was one of the founders of the African Democratic Rally (R.D.A) an autonomist poular front in twelve French African territories. It had close ties with French Communists but drove them out.
His career in the government started in 1950, when he was elected to the Guinea Legislative Assembly. In 1953 he became territorial counselor for Beyla and in 1955 Mayor of Conakry. The following year he won a seat in the French National Assembly.
He was been secretary general of the Guinea Democratic Party, the local branch of R.D.A since 1952. E was elected president of the C.G.T in Africa in 1956. In 1957 he was an organizer of the U.G.T.A.N the general Labour Union of Black Africa, which was independent of the C.G.T. In the same year he was made territorial counselor of Conakry and grand counselor for French West Africa. As a result of new French constitutional laws, he became Vice-Premier of the Governmental Council of Guinea equivalent to prime minister, under the French Governor.
Economic Development: Guinea is developing its agricultural and mineral potentials. Main imports are manufactured consumer goods and constructional materials. Guinea exports coffee, bananas, palm kernels, iron ore and bauxite.
Monetary unit: Guinean France
Religion:Moslem with Christian minority
Defence: Guinea has an army of 2000 man-strong
Cameroon
Geographical Situation: The West African state of Cameroon, which achieved its independence on January, 1, 1960, is bounded in the north by Chad Republic, in the east by central African Republic, in the south by Congo Republic (Brazzaville), Gabon Republic, Spanish Guinea and the Atlantic, and in the west by British Cameroon and Nigeria.
Area:167,000 sq. miles
Population:,187,000
Capital: Younde, other bit towns are: Douala, Caroua, Manoua and Foumbana
Language: Official is French. Tribal dialects are also spoken
Government:Republic
The legislative power is exercised by only one National Assembly, whose members number one hundred, elected by a universal suffrage for a period of five years. The executive power is exercised by the Prime Minister who is invested by the National Assembly, with an absolute majority. The National Assembly was elected on April 10, 1960. The President is head of State.
Head of State:Ahmadou Ahidjo President
Ahumadou Babatoura Ahidjo has been President of the Cameroon Republic since May 5, 1960. M Ahidjo’s party, the nationalist Union Camerounaise, is apparently pro-French but is against joining the French Community.
It is the leading party in the coalition government. M. Ahidjo formed it when he became Prime Minister under the French in February 1958.
A mber of the Fulani trib,e M. Ahidjo was born at Garoua (Cameroun) on May 10, 1922, and educated at the Ecole Superieure Administration at Yaounde. He was trained as a radio operator and did not take up a political career until 1947.
He was elected to the fist Representative Assembly of Cameroun in that year and ever since has been closely assisucated with the constitutional development of the country.
From 1955 to 1958 he was a member of the Assembly of the French Union and from 1956 to 1957 president of the Territorial Assembly for Cameroun. In May 1957 he was appointed Vice-Premier under the French governor.
Head of Government:Charles Assale – Prime Minister
Charles Assale (born on Novermber 4, 1911) has been Prime Minister of the Cameroun Republic since May 1960.
Ub tge dats wgeb M. Assale was campaigning for independence from French trusteeshp, together with other leaders of his Cameroun National Action Movement (M.A. N.C), he warned that political outbiding on the popular independence issue could lead only to trouble and politicla instability.
Two years before independence he said: “Independence does not rule out harmonious relatins with France.” These harmonious relations have since proved a reality. At that time M. Assale was in opposition to the prime Minister of the day, M. Andre-Marie M’Bida, whose ideas he thought too authoritarian.
Mr Assale, son of an African planter, began his career as a male nurse, studying at the nursing school at Ayos. He entered politics with the Cameroun Naitonal Action Movement, over whci he presided, and from 1946 to 1950 was Secretary-General of the General Workers Union (C.G.T) in Cameroun.
While holding this post, he became a member of France’s Economic Council, an advisory body in paris. On March 30, 1952, M. Assale was elected for the first time to the Territorial Assembly, beginning a legislative career which continued in the legislative Assembly, in which he representaed the National Acition Movemet, and the National Assembly, in which, since his eleciton on April 10, 1960, he heads the moderate Cameroun Progressist Group.
Before becoming Prime Ministr, M. Assale had scope for his administrative talents as Finance Minister in M. Ahmadou Ahiudjo’s governmetn from February 19, 1958 to Mya14, 1960, stepping into M. Ahidjo’s shoes when the latter became President of the Republic. M. Assale married Mlle Jeanne-Marie Ayo in 1935. They have eight children.
Economic Development: Cameroons is working to develop its economic potential in trade and agriculture. It exports coffee, cacao, manganese, timber, cotton and banana.
It imports iron made articles, machinery and textile goods, petroleum products and medicines.
Monetary Unit: Cameroon France
Religion:Moslem with Christian and Animist minority
Defence: Since independence, Cameroon is organizing its own defenses.
Togoland
Geographical Situation: The state of Togo which became independent on April 27, 1960, is situated I the West coast of Africa, and is bounded in the West by Ghana, in the East by Dhomey, in the North by Upper Volta an in the South by the Atlantic Ocean.
Area:,000 sq. miles
Population:1,100,000
Capital: Lome, other important towns: Anegho and Savalou
Language: Official is French, Many dialects are also spoken
Government:Republic
The legislative power belongs to the chamber of Deputies, whose members are elected by direct universal suffrage for a period of six years. The deputies and the Prime Minister possess the initiative of the law. The Chamber of Deputies can censure the government policy by a vote of absolute majority. The Chamber of Deputies can be dissolved by decree of the Prime Minister according to certain modalities.
The executive power is exercised by the Government directed by a Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, designated for a period equal to that of the term of office of the deputies receives the investiture from the Chamber, by a vote of simple majority: he appoints the ministers who constitute with him the Cabinet, and he can ask for a vote of confidence, which, if denied, must be only by an absolute majority, and in which case the dismissal of the government will result.
Head of State:Sylvanus Olympio Presidnet and Prime Minister
Sylvanus Olympio – both the mirror ad the conscience of Togo, who was born on September 6, 1902 is the son of a wealthy Ewe merchant whose forefathers had come to Africa from Brazil. After attending German and British schools through the secondary level at Lome, he studied for several years in England and in 1926 received a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the London School of Economics. Upon his return to West Africa he joined the Untied Africa Company as clerck in the firm, and in 1938 he became the General Manager of the Company.
Politics begun to command his attention in 1943, when Olympio was interned at Djougou in Northern Dahomey on suspicion of Pro-Allied sentiments and opposition to the Vichy government of France. He was one of the founders and prime movers of the Ewe Unification movement, the “Comite de l’Unite Togolasie,” and susbsequently became its vice president. In 1946 his Party garnered a majority in the elections for French Togoland’s first Representatives. Olympio’s Party boycotted the elections held in 1955 and the 1956 referendum in protest against French manipulation. Throughout this period, Sylvanus Olympio was a frequent petitioner before the U.N. General Assembly in New York, where he spelled out in eloquent detail the sins of the Trust Authority and had much to do with the 1956. U.N. decision that new and carefully-supervised elections should be held in Togo before ending the trust status. On April 27, 1958 elecitons, Mr. Olympio’s Party swept over the French supported one, and he was elected leader of the nation.
Prime Minister Olympio is an ardent nationalist and prefers to lead his country in “neutralist line.”
Economic Development: Togo is mainly an agricultural country. Among the items that Togo exports are cacao, coffee, maiz, palm oil and may others.
Imports are machinery, textiles and household materials.
Monetary unit: Togo-France
Religion:Christian, Moslem and Animst
Defence: Sicne independence Togo is organizing its own defenses.
Congo (Leopoldville)
Geographical Situation: Situated in Central Africa the Republic of Congo (Leopoldville) Proclaimed its independence on June 30, 1960. Its boundaries are: in the north, Central African Republic and the Republic of Sudan, in the south, Northern Rhodesia and Angola, in the east, Uganda, Ruanda-Urundi and Tanganyika, in the west, the Republic of Congo (Brazaville) and the Atlantic.
Area:905,000 sq. miles
Population:Over 13,000,000
Capital: LEOPOLDVILLE, other important towns are Elisabethville, Stanlyville, Luluabourge coquilhatville, Albertville, Jadotville and Matadi
Language: Official French, over 250 dialects are spoken by different tribes
Government:Republic
The Congo Republic has a President as head of State, and a Prime Minister as head of the Government, Legislative power is exercised by the National Assembly which is composed of two Houses Chamber of deputies and senate. The deputies are elected by a universal suffrage; and the Senate is filled (84 members) with tribal leaders and chiefs elected by the provincial assemblies, to represent the six provinces of Congo. The Prime Minister appoints his cabinet members, who are responsible to the parliament.
Head of State:Joseph Kasauubu President of the Congo Republic,
Mr Kasavubu first came into prominence, when as leader of his Abako Party (Alliance des Bakongos) he took an active part in the independence movement.
Mr Kasavubu was born in 1910 at Kuma Dizi, Tshela Territory, in Leopoldville Province. He attended the Roman Catholic Mbata Kiela Seminary School for eight years (1928-1936) and subsequently received a teacher’s certificate in 1940 from the Kabwe Seminary in Kasai Province. After a decade of service as chief cleark in the Government General, Mr Kasavubu joined the ABAKO and was elected president in 1954. He immediately began transforming it from a cultural society into a political organization. In 1957, he was elected burgomaster of the commune of Dendale and took the occasion of his installation to spring one of the first cautiously nationalistic speeches in modern Congolese history. He was arrested after the January 1959 Leopoldville riots, but was release in March of the same year.
Kasavuba, acutely conscious of the strong tribal traditions of the Bakongo people, has enhanced his political strength by enshrouding himself in a unique religious mystique combining both tribal animism and certain aspects of Christian revivalism.
At the end of the general election, when Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba was forming his government, a post was reserved for Mr. Kasavubu as Head of State, the reason being to avoid dissidence between the two rivals. Thus, Mr. Kasavubu became the President of the Republic of June 30, 1960.
Head of Government Patrice Lumumba – Prime Minister
Patrice Lumumba, 34 year old Prime minister, rose to power in the Congo on a call for “unity” for a country split into scores of disunited tribes after the Belgians with drew from the Congo.
A member of the Mutetela tribe, he was a post office clerk. He is leader of the National Congolese Movement (M.N.C) which was founded in October 1958 to press for independence for the Belgian Congo after President de Gaulle had offered independence to the French Congo.
He was imprisoned on charges of inciting people to overthrow the Belgian Governmetn but was released in time to attend the Brussels Conference (January 20 – February 20, 1960) which unexpectedly granted independence to the Congo within four and a half months. Following decisive victory at the polls, Mr. Lumumba was invited by the Belgians to form the Congo’s first national government.
His nearest rival, Joseph Kasavubu (10 per cent of the votes, compared with the MNC’s 27 per cent) was made President in a move to avoid dissension in the new republic.
Economic Development: The former Belgian colony of Congo now an independent Republic is one of the richest nations in Africa. It has made substantial advance agriculturally, industrially and commercially. Congo exports iron ores, cobalt, diamonds, tin, copper, manganese, timber and agricultural products, such as coffee and cotton.
It imports machinery constructional materials motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products petroleum products iron made materials steel and agricultural commodities.
Monitory unit: Congolese franc
Religion:Christian with Animist minority
Defence: The Republic of Congo has an army of 25,000 men, known as the “Force Publique.”
Somali – Republic
Geographical Situation: The Somali Republic which proclaimed its independence on July 1, 1960, is situated in the eastern part of the Horn of Africa. Its boundaries are in the north the Guilf of Aden, in the west Ethiopia, in the east the Indian Ocean, and in the South Kenya.
Area:88,000 sq. miles
Population:1,86,584
Capital: MOGADISCIO other important owns are: Hargeissa, Berbera, Buro, etc
Language: Arabic, Somali, English and Italian
Government:Republic
The legislative power is exercised by the National assembly, which consists of deputies elected by universal, free, direct and secret suffrage or of deputies by right.
Each legislature is elected for a period of five years. The president is elected by the national assembly and becomes head of the state. The presented has the right to dissolve the national assembly before the end of its term of office, after having hearted the opinion of the president of the Assembly.
The executive power is functioned by the government whose head is the Prime Minister, appointed by the president of the republic. The government is composed of the prime minister and the ministers, who are responsible to the National Assembly. The president of the republic can dismiss the prime minister as well as the ministers who are appointed by him on the proposal of the prime minister.
Head of State:Aden Abdulla Osman – Presidnet
Newly chosen president of the Somali Republic and former president of the Somalia legislative assembly, ABDULLAH OSMAN, 52, is warm, quiet, moderate, and skillful in reconciling disputes. From 1929 to 1941, he worked in various capacities with the Italian Administration. He was president of the Somali Youth Leagae from 1954 to 1956 and took over again the 1958 after his successor, Hagi Mohammed Hussein, was expelled for pursuing an extremist policy. During the trusteeship period Osman served as vice-president of the Territorial council and as presented of the Legislative Assembly. In foreign affairs, he is a “neutralist” with inclination towards the west.
Head of Government Dr. Abdi Raschid Ali Shermarche – Prime Minister
Dr Shermarche, the first prime minister of Somali republic was born in Harrarder in Obia district.
In 1932 he entered a local Konan school, after which he went to Mogadiscio to attend an elementary school. He entered a government service, and a year later he left it and shifted his interest to economic activities.
It was during the British control of the former Italian territory that Dr. Abdi Rashid was able to continue his interrupted education.
Upon the completion of his studies in administration, Dr. Shermarche was given a post in his field of study. Which he held until the British handed over the administration of the territory to Italy. During the trusteeship period, he started again his studies in administration in which he graduated in 1952. The following year, he went to Italy for his advanced studies.
He returned to Somalia in 1954. Later he was enrolled in the High Institute of economic studies in Rome, where, after a three years work he took his doctorate in political science, from the University of Rome.
Dr Abdi Rascid Shermarche is one of the first members of the Somali Youth League when the party was founded. In the 1959 election, he was elected member of the Legislative Assembly. In 1956, he represented Somalia at the Bandung Conference. He became Prime Minister of Somali Republic in July 1960.
Economic Development: Somalia is a land of nomads, wandering form place to place looking for grazing pastures and water. Its economy is based on cattle grazing. The government is encouraging for a settlement and agricultural development. Among the chief exports, are bananas, incense, skins and hides. It imports cereals, agricultural commodities machinery and textiles.
Monetary unit: Somalos
Religion:Predominantly Moslem
Defence: Somali is organizing it own defenses.
Madagascar
Geographical Situation: The island of Madagascar which proclaimed its independence on July 30, 1960, is entirely bounded by the Indian Ocean and its situated off the shores of South-Eastern Africa
Area:30,163 sq. miles
Population:5,090,000
Capital: Tananariv, other important towns are: Majunga, Tamatave, Diega, Suarez, Fianarantsoa and Tulear
Language: Official Malgash and French
Government:Republic:
Madagascar voted its constitution on April 29, 1959-. The legislative power is exercised by two Assemblies: the National assembly elected for five years by direct universal suffrage, and the Senate, designated for six years. The president of the republic, who is at the same time head of government, is the holder of the executive power. He is elected for seven years by a college comprising members of the national assembly and of the senate, members of provincial councils, and delegates of municipal and rural assemblies.
Head of State:Philibert Tsiranana – president and prime minister. Philibert Tshiranana, who as president of the Malagasy republic (formerly the French colony of Madagascar) also combines the functions of Prime minister and minister of defence, is the chief architect of his country’s independence and at the same time, one of the leading champions of Franco-African co-operation.
He was born on October 18, 1912 in a mountain village in Northern Madagascar, he was twelve before he went to school but proved a brilliant students, becoming a teachers and later a professor. He has retained the practical outlook of his peasant background.
In 1946 he was selected for training at the Ecole Normale (Teachers’ College) of Montepellier in France and on his return to Tananarive was appointed professor of technical education.
About 1945 M. Tsiranana joined the Socialist Party. In 1952 was returned unopposed as a councilor in the Madagascar Representative Assembly. In 1956 he was elected deputy to the National Assembly in Paris from the Cote Ouest constituency of Madagascar. In the same year M. Tsiranana founded his own party the Parti Social Democrate (P.S.C) whose philosophy is based on Christian Socialism.
During the revision of the status of France’s African colonies in 1957 and 1958 M. Tsiranana served as vise President of Madagascar’s local cabinet under the French governor and president of the provisional government.
He reached perhaps the greatest moment in his political carer on May 1, 1959, when he was voted first president of the Malagasy Republic. Under the constitution he is also prime minister.
On July 23, 1959 general de Galle appointed him minister adviser to the French community. M. Tsiranana’s P.S.D party won a general election in September 1960.
Economic Development: Madagarscar is predominantly agricultural with cattle raising as chief occupation. There are several food-processing and textile plants. Its products are: rice, coffee, sugar, cacao, fiber, graphite and mica. Chief exports are: coffee, rice and tobacco. Chief imports: machinery, textiles, motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products etc.
Monitory unit: Malgash franc
Religion:Mainly Christian
Defence: Since its independence, Madagascar is organizing its own defense.
Dahomey
Geographical Situation: The west African state of Dohomey, which proclaimed its independence on August 1, 1960, is bounded in the west by Togoland, in the north by Niger and Upper Volta, in the south by the Atlantic, ad in the east by Nigeria
Area:45,000 sq miles
Population:1,719,000
Capital: PORTO NOVO, other important towns: Cotonu, Parakou and Abomey
Language: Official is French Tribal dialects are also spoken
Government:Republic
The republic of Dahomey voted its Constitution on February 14, 1959. The legislative power is exercised by a legislative assembly elected by an absolute majority. The judiciary power constitutes an independent authority of the legislative and executive.
Head of State:Mr. Hubert Maga – Prime Minister
Hubert Maga is leader of the Democratic Rally of Dahomey, a moderate nationalist party which fully supports the independence of Dahomey within the French Community which was achieved on August 1, 1960.
M Maga was born in August 1916 at Parakou. He was educated at the Ecole Normale de Goree, became a school, teacher, ad until 1951 was headmaster of a school at Nabitingou.
His political career began in 1947 when he was made a territorial councilor. At that time M. Maga belonged to the Dahomian Progressive Union, the party led by his rival, M. Sourou Migon Apithy. But left this party in 1951 to form the Groupemnet Ethnique de Nord, which in January 1953, became the Dahomian Popular Movemetn and four years later the Dahomian Democratic Rally.
A depaty for Dahomey to the French National Assembly from 1951 to 1958, M. Mago was a frim supporter of M. Leopold Senghor of Senegal in his efforts towards African unity.
M Maga was under secretary for labour in the French Cabinet headed by M Felix Gaillard from November 1957 to May 1958. He was grand councilor for art for Dahomey from 1948 to 1957. He held the post of Minister of labour and social affairs in the dahomey governmental d on April 2, 1959 was elected to the legislative assembly of the dahomey republic. He became a member of the senate of the French community on April 30, 19959 and was elected prime minister of Dahomey on May 18, 1959.
Economic Development: Dahomey is an agricultural country producing coconut, olive palm products, cotton, milled sorgho. Chromite and iron ore deposits were discovered recnelty, also large quantities of rutile and ilmenite. It exports palm products cotton and coffee. It imports machinery, textiles, motor vehicles etc
Monitory unit: Dahomey Franc
Religion:Majority: Animist: with Christian and Moslem minority
Defence: Since independence Dahomey is organizing its own defences.
Niger
Geographical Situation: Formerly known as part of French West Africa, Niger proclaimed its independence on August 3, 1960. Its boundaries are in the north Algeria and Libya, I the east Chad, in the west upper Volta and Mali rep., and in the south Nigeria and Dahomey.
Area:495,000 sq miles
Population:2,500,000
Capital: NIAMEY, other important towns are: Zinder, Agades, Tahoua.
Language: Official is French. There are also tribal dialects
Government:Republic
The republic of Niger voted its constitution on February 25, 1959. The legislative Assembly elected on December 1958 by universal suffrage for five years exercise the legislative power. The president of the council, invested with an absolute majority by the assembly is chief of the execute. The independence of the judiciary authority is guaranteed by the constitutions.
Head of Government:Hamani Diori – Prime Minister
Hamani Diori became prime minister of the Niver in December 1958 when he replaced his principal rival, diiho Bakary, leader of the Sawaba (Liberty) Party as head of government
M Bakary advocated a vote of “no” in France’s 1958 constitutional referendum, which would have meant immediate independence for the Niger. Bu the country preferred to become a member state of the French community. Independence cam eon Augut 3, 1960.
As the beginning gof 1959 M. Diori annulled the election of Sawaba deputies, consolidating the supremacy of his Niger Progressive party which is the local section of the autonomist popular front movement. The African Democratic Rally. M. Diori’s party now holds all the seats in the legislative assembly and all the ministerial portfolios.
He was born on June 16, 1916 at Soudoure, was trained as a teacher at the William punthy school in Dakar Senegal. In 1946 he became one of the earliest members of the African democratic Rally (R.D.A) founded his Niger progressive party and was elected deputy from the Niger to the French national assembly.
He continued as deputy until 1951 and was re-elected in 1956 to serve until 1958. From June 21, 1957 until December 9, 1958 he was a vice-president of the national assembly, and on March 13, 1958 he became a member of the European parliamentary assembly.
In the Niger he was a territorial councilor from March 1957 to December 1958. He became prime minister of Niger’s provisional government on December 18, 1958 and prime minister of the republic on January 5, 1959.
Economic Development: The chief economic apparatus are crop growing and livestock. The main market crop is ground nuts which accounts for three quarter of exports. It also exports livestock, meat, hides, and skins. Mineral products include tungsten, tin and salt. It imports machinery, textiles, motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products, agricultural machinery and petroleum products.
Monitory unit: Niger Franc
Religion:Mainly Moslem
Defence: Niger, as an independent state, is organizing its own defenses.
Upper Volta
Geographical Situation: The independent republic of upper volta which is in central west Africa, proclaimed its independence on August 5, 1960. It is bounded in the north and west by the Mali republic, in the east by Niger and Dahomey, in the south by Ivory Coast, Ghana and Togoland.
Area:106,000 sq mils
Population:,500,000
Capital: OUAGADOUGOU, other important towns are: Bobo, Dioulasso, Batie
Language: Official is French Tribal dialects are also spoken
Government:Republic
The republic of Upper Volta voted its constitution on February 28, 1959 (approved by referendum on March 15, 1959). The legislative power is exercised by a legislative assembly of seventy five members, elected for a period of five years by a universal suffrage. The executive power is exercised by the president of the council (invested with an absolute majority by the legislative assembly)
Head of government:Maurice Yameogo – Prime Minister
In January 1959 M. Yameogo took part in the constituent assembly of the Mali Federation, although he did not share the Federalistic tendencies of an important section of his party the Volta Democratic Union (U.D.V).
A few weeks later the constituent assembly of the upper Volta adopted a form of constituon which contained no reference to the Mali federation, and committed upper Volta to the rejection of the federalization formula.
M Yameogo was born on December 31, 1921 at Koudougoa and is a member of the Mossi race.
He began his political career in 1946 when he became a territorial councilor. In 1946 he began to work in the administration of French West Africa and in the same year became a member of the Grand council of French West Africa (A.O.F).
M Yameogo is a trade unionist, and was vice-president of the territorial branch of the confederation franchise de Travailleurs Chretiens (C.F.T.C) in 1954. He later belonged to all the parties which were formed in upper Volta before he became a member of U.D.V the local section of the autonomist African Democratic Rally (R.D.A) in January, 1958.
He was given his first government post in 1957 as minister of Agricultural economy. In the following year he was appointed minister of the interior. In July 1958 he was elected prime minister of the upper Volta government.
M Yameogo became prime minister of the upper Volta republic on April 25, 1959 and also holds the posts of minister of information justice and ex-soldiers.
Economic Development: The principal industry of upper Volta is livestock, for which there are fairly favorable natural conditions and a good proportion of which is raised for export, exports are meat, butter, hides, cotton, cattle, karate and groundnuts.Chief crops are ground nuts, rice, cotton, sorgho and millet. Its imports are manufactured goods agricultural machinery and textiles.
Monitory unit: Voltaic franc
Religion:Christian and Moslem minority
Defence: Since its independence the republic of upper Volta has started organizing its own defenses.
Ivory Coast
Geographical Situation: The republic of Ivory Coast, which proclaimed its independence on August 7, 1960, is bounded in the east by Ghana, in the west by Liberia and Guinea, in the north by Upper Volta and Mali republic and in the south by the Atlantic.
Area:13,500 sq miles
Population:,000,000
Capital: ABIDJAN, other important towns are Bouake, Daloa, Mal, Sassamdra
Language: Official is French Tribal dialect are also spoken
Government:Republic
The republic of Ivory Coast voted its constitution on March 26, 1959. The legislative power is exercised by only one assembly, elected by universal suffrage. The prime minister, invested by an absolute majority of the assembly, is the holder of the executive power. The legislative assembly, whose members number one hundred, was elected on April 12,. 1959 for a period of five years.
Head of government:M. Felix Houphouet-Boigny – Prime Minister
M boigny was the founder in 1946 of the African Democratic Rally (R.D.A) one of the strongest political movements in Black Africa, and is now its president. The R.D.A is an autonomist organization which links parties in twelve territories of former French Africa.
M Houphouet-Boigny has a long and distinguished recored in French politics. He represented the Ivory Coast in the French Constituent Assemblies and in the national assembly from 1945 to 1959 and held posts in asuccessive French cabinets from January 1956 to May 1959.
He was born on October 18, 1905 at Yamoussokio, studied at the Ecole de Medecine in Dakar, Senegal, ad from 1925 to 1940 worked as an intern in native dispensaries.
He retured to his father’s cocoa plantations in 1940, and was elected chief of his canton. From 1957 to 1958 he was president of the Federal Grand Council of French West Africa, and was appointed president of the Ivory Coast Territoiral Assembly in 1957.
He was invested as Primary Minister of the Ivory Coast on May, 20, 1959 resigned from the French cabinet led by M. Debre.
On July 23, 1959 he was named minister adviser to the French community but resigned on September 9, 1960, just over a month after he had proclaimed the Ivory Coast’s independence (August 7).
M Houphouet-Boigny is expected t become the Ivory Coast’s first president. The draft constitution presented to the National assembly in Abidian on October 18, 1960 would give him complete executive power, and make him responsible only to the electorate
Economic Development: Economically, Ivory Coast is rated as the most developed territory of former French West Africa. Diamonds are mined and timber is also an important industry of the country. Its main exports are coffee, coca and timber. Its imports are manufactured goods, machinery petroleum products and pharmaceutical products.
Monitory unit: Ivory Coast franc
Religion:Christian Moslem and Animist
Defence: Since its independence Ivory Coast has began organizing its own defenses
Chad
Geographical Situation: Formerly known as part of French Equatorial Africa, the independent republic of Chad proclaimed its independence on August 11, 1960. It is bordered in the north by Libya, in the east by Sudan, in the south by the Rep. of Cameroon and central African republic, and in the west by the republic of Niger
Area:496,000 sq. miles
Population:2,750,000
Capital: FORT LAMY, other important towns: Moundou, For-Archambault and Abeche
Language: Official is French: Arabic and other dialects are spoken
Government:Republic
The republic of Chad voted its constitution on March 31, 1959. The legislative power is exercised by only one assembly, elected by a universal suffrage, for a period of five years. The executive power is exercised by the Prime Minister, designated by the assembly with a simple majority and then invested with his ministers by a two third majority. The legislative assembly with its eighty-five seats, was elected on March 31, 1959.
Head of government:Francois Tombalbaye – President and Prime Minister
Francois Tombalbaye is 50 years of age. He became president of the Chad Republic on August 12, 1960, the day after his country became independent of France. He is a member of the moderate Chad popular party, the local section of the autonomist African Democratic Rally.
M Tombalbaye was born at Bodaya, and was first a businessman and then a school official. He is a former president of the Union des Syndicats Autonomes due Chad.
He was a territorial councilor in 1952 and again from 1957 to 1959, and a member of the Grand council of French Equatorial Africa from 1957-59.
From 1957 to 1959 he was vice-president of the Grand council.
He has been a member of the Chad Legislative Assembly since 1959 and was invested as Prime Minister on March 26 of that year.
Economic Development: The semi-arid land of Chad is pastoral and agricultural. The chief product, which is the backbone of Chad’s economy, is cotton.
Cotton accounts for four fifths of exports. Other exports are fish and cocoa.
It imports manufactured goods, agricultural machinery and pharmaceutical products.
Monitory unit: Chad franc
Religion:Mainly Moslem with Christian minority
Defence: After its independence on August 11, 1960, Chad has begun organizing its own defense.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
GeographicalSituation :The Central African Republic, which proclaimed its independence on August 13, 1960, is bounded in the east by Sudan in the west by the Cameroon Republic, in the north by Chad, and in the south by the two Congos (Brazzaville and Leopoldville).
Area :238,224 sp.miles.
Populatiion :1.130,000.
Capital :Bangui. Other important towns are: Berberati,and Bambari.
Language :Officials is French.Tribal dialects are also spoken
Government :Republic.
The Central African Republic voted its constitution on February 9,1959.
The legislative power is exercised by an Assembly, for a period of five years. The Prime Minister, elected by the Assembly (absolute majority in the first round, relative majority in the second round) is the holder of the executive power. The Judiciary power functions independently of the legislative and executive authority. The legislative Assembly (with fifty members) was elected on April 5,1959.
Head of the Government : David Dacke – Prime Minister.
David Dacko became Prime Minister of the Central African Republic (formerly Oubangi Chari, and now and member state of the French Community) on April 30,1959 after the death in an air crash of his cousin, M.Barthelemy Boganda.
He is 28 years old, and a former Minister of the Interior, Economy and Commerce.
MDacko is leader of the ruling Movement pour  I’Evolution Sociale de L’Afrique Noire (,E.S.A.N.),the moderate pro-French party, founded by M. Boganda,which favorus the French Community.
In October 1959 M.Dacko dissolved the government by decree after and attempt to censure his had been made by a group that broke away from his party.
The group accused M.Dacko of attempting to by-pass the assembly and rule by decree,and accused the government of failure, particularly in the economic filed.
Economic Development : The principal occupation is agriculture. Almost all the land is savanna. The crops being cotton and coffee,account practically for the entire exports; gold and diamonds are mined in the cantry. Its imports are: agricultural machinery, motorvehicles and manufactured goods.
Monetary Unit : Central African franc.
Religion :Christian minorities and Animist.
Defince : As a new independent state, the Central African Republic has begun organizing its won defences since its independence.
CONGO (Brazzaville)
Geographical Situation :The former French territory of Congo, which became independent on August 15,1960, is bounded in the East by Congo  (Leopoldville), in the North by the Central African Republic and the Rep.of Cameroons, in the West by Gabon and the Atlantic and in the South by Congo (Leopoldville) and the Atlantic Ocean.
Area :132,046 sq.miles.
Population : 760,000.
Capital : Brazzaville, other towns : Pointe-Noire, MInduli
Language : Official French.
Government : Republic. The Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) voted its constitution on February 23,1959.The legislative power is exercised by a legislative Assembly elected by a universal suffrage for a period of five years. The executive power is exercised by the Prime Insister. Elected by the Assembly with an absolute majority (first round) or relative majority (second round).The legislative Assembly (sixty one seats) was elected on June 14,1959.
Head of State : Abbe Fulbert Youlou-President of the Congo Republic (now a member state of the French community)is a Roman Catholic priest. He was “suspended” by the Bishop of Brazzaville in 1956 for taking part in politics and standing for election against the wishes of the ecclesiastical authorities,
He is the leader of the ruling Democratic Union for the Defense of African Interests. He founded the party, which is the local section of the autonomist African Democratic Rally.Hi favours a one-party system as  the best type of Parliamentary democracy for the Congo, claiming that the two-party system is out of date for the new African states.
The son of a businessman.Abbe Youlou was born at Momboula on the outskirts of Brazzaville on June 9,1917.
He was educated in the Mission School at Brazzaville and later at a seminary in neighboring Gabon.
In 1946, after his ordination he became a priest in Brazzaville.
He fought his first political campagn ten years later, but was sunsuccessful in his attempt to win  the Middle congo seat in the French National Assembly. Later in the same year--- on November 18 --- he was elected Mayor of Brazzaville.
He was elected to the Territorial Legislative Assembly in March 1957 and served in the cabinet as Minister of Agricure from May 1957 to December 1958. He became prime Minister on December 8, 1958.
He formed a new government on July 4, 1959 with himself as prime Minister and Minister of Justice and Foreign Affairs. He became president of the republic, retaining the post of prime Minister, on November 21, 1959, and proclaimed independence on August 15,1960.
Economic
Development: The country is an agricultural land with tropical forests
Which supply valuable timber of special qualities. Crops
Produced are: coffee, cotton, sorgho, bananas, pine apple,
Tobacco and cacao. Most of the products, pine apple,
Including timber. Its imports are: manufactured goods,
Motor vehicles, machinery and pharmaceutical products.
Currency: Congo franc.
Religion:  Christians and Animists.
Defence : Congo isorganizing its own defence since since its independence
G A B O N
Geographical Situation The Republic of Gabon, which proclaimed its independence on August 17,1960, is situated in the West coast of Africa.
Area103,089 sq. miles.
Population : 403,000.
Capitol:LIBREVILIE, other important towns: Port-Gentil, and Makolou.
Language: French is official. Other dialects are also spken.
Government:    Republi.
The Republic of Gabon voted its constitution on February 19,1959. The legislative powe is exercised by a legislative  Assembly, elected by a universal suffrage, for a period of five years.The executive power is vested on the prime Minister (elected by the Assembly with an absolute majority in the first two rounds of the ballot, with a relative majority in the third). The territorial Assembly (forty members) which was elected in 1958. And then a legislative Assembly on February 19,1959
Head of Government: Leon MBa-prime Minister of the Gabon Republic.
MMBa rose to his present position in Gabon through the ramks of the Civil service. He worked in the Army commissariat colonial administration and the customs service before taking up a political career.
He was born at Libreville on February 9,1902, and educated there at the college de sainte-Marie, becoming mayor of Libreville in 1956.
He was elected territorial councilor in 1952 under the banner of the Gabonese Democratic Bloc (B.D.G.), the local section of African Democratic Rally (R.D.A),a popular front, with autonomist aims linking parties in October 1958, and prime Minister of the Republic on February 19,1959.
In the referendum of September 1958, Gabon, a former state of French Equatorial  Africa. Chose to be an independent member state of the French Community.
Economic Development: Gabon is practically covered with tropical forest.
Religion:      Animist with Christian minority.
Defence:     since its independence, Gabon is organizing its own defences.
S E N E G A L
Geographical Situation: the Mali Federation which became independent on June 20, 1960, was formed of Senegal and sudan. On August 20, 1960, Senegal announced its secession from the federation, And at the same time it proclaimed itself an independent Sovereign state. The west African state of Senegal is bounded in The east by Mali Guinea and Gambia, in the west, by the Atlantic And in the noth, by Mauritania.
Area76,000,000.
Population 2,300,000
Capital:      DAKAR, other important towns are: St. Louis and Thies.
Language: official is French. Tribal dialects are also spoken.
Government: Republic. he Republic of Senegal voted its constitution on anuary 24, 1959, the legislative power is exercised by A legislative Assembly, elected by a universal suffrage for A period of five the president of the council (invested with an Absolute majority by the legilslative Assembly) holds the executive Power in its totality. The legislative Assembly (with its eighty members) Was elected on March 22,1959.
A new Senegalese constitution adapted on August 25, 1960, by the Senegalese constitution adapted on August The president is elected for a seven-years term, with
A possibility of further re-election, by an electoral college composed of the National Assembly and representatives of regional and municipal authorities.
(a) Head of State:  Leopold sedar senghor president.
Mr senghor, who was president of the Mali Federal As Sembly, and now, president of the Republic of Senegal Was considered almost certain to become the first pres dent of the Mali federation until his country seceded from it, causirg its break-up, on August 20, 1960.
M senghor and M Dia, wanted a loose and liberal federation, in opposition to M keita’s aim of strong centralization.
On September 6,M, senghor was elected president.
M senghor, who is 54 years old, has well absorbed the culture of France and he has an international reputation as a poet and philosopher.
He has always been an advocate of the emancipation and unity of Africa.
M senghor was born on October 9, 1906 at Joel. He studied in paris and in 1953 became the first west African to obtain his aggregation at the Sorbonne. He remained in France as a teacher.
He was mobilized in 1939 and taken prisoner by the Germans.
He was interned in various prison camps where he helped to organize prison resistance groups. Later he worked in the French resistance.
At the end the second world war he was elected Deputy for Senegal to the French constituent Assembly in Paris, sponsored by the French socialist party. He represented Senegal in both Constituent Assemblies and in the French National Assembly from 1946 to 1959.
In 1948 he left the socialist party to from his own party, the Senegalese Democratic Bloc. This later became the Senegalese Democratic Bloc. This later become the Senegal Progressist Union and in March 1959 the local section of the African Federation Party.
M Senghor is now the party’s secretary-general. Of a moderate ritht-wing tendency, it is the ruling party in Senegal.
M Senghor saved in the cabinet of MEdgar Faure from  February 1955 until January 24, 1956. He was a member of the Grand Council of French West Africa in 1957 and in the same year became a territorial councilor for Senegal.
A year earlier he had been elected Mayor of Thies.
(b) Head of Government: Mamadou jDia – Prime Minister.
Mamadou Dia is Prime Minister of the Republic of Senegal, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Relations with the French Community.Hi has always been a supporter of M. Leopold Senghor (President of Senegal) in his efforts towards African unity. He was one of the initiators of the short-lived Mali Federation, of which he was vice-president. M. Dia was born on July 18,1910 at Khombole. He studied at the Ecole Normale William Ponthy at Dakar, is an arts graduate and worked as a teacher.
He was general councilor of Senegal in 1946: from 1946 to 1957 was a member of the Grand Council of French West Africa. From 1948 to 1956 he was Senator for Senegal to the Council of the French Republic, and was elected deputy for Senegal to the French National Assembly on January 2, 1956. In November of that year he was elected Mayor of Diour bel. He was appointed territorial councilor in 1957.
In May 1957he was vice-premier under the French governor of the Senegal government, and in August 1958 was elected Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and International Relations. He was elected a deputy to the Senegal Legislative Assembly on March 22,1959. On April 4, 1959 he was elected Prime Minister of the Republic.He became vice-president of the government of the Mali Federation in April 1959. M. Dia is leader of the moderate Right Wing Senegalese Progressive Union (U.P.S.), which on March 25,1959 was transformed into the African Federalist Party (P.F.A.).
Economic Development : Senegal is an agricultural country. It produces mainly peanuts. Its exports include : maiz, millet, rice, cotton, peanut-oil and phosphates. It imports agricultural machinery, vehicles, pharmaceutical products, textiles and house hold furniture’s.
Monitary Unit : Senegalese franc.
Religion : Moslem, animst and Christian.
Defence : Senegal is in the process of organizing its won defences.
MALI REPUBLIC
Geographical Situation : The mail Republic, which was part of Mali Federation, that proclaimed its independence on June 20,1960, under the name of Sudan, became to be known as a separate independent state, right after the secession of Senegal from the Federation on August 20, 1960. It is bounded in the north, by Algeria, in the south by Guinea, the Upper Volta and Ivory Coast, in the east by Niger, in the west by Mauritania and Senegal.
Area: 464,865 sq. nukes.
Pipulation :3,700,000.
Capital :BAMAKO, other important towns : Gao, Kayes, Timbucktu.
Language : Official is French. There are tribal dialects.
Government : Republic.
The Mali Republic (formerly French Sudan Republic), voted its constitution on January 23, 1959. The legislative power is exercised by only one Assembly, elected by a universal suffrage for a period of five years, with one round majority ballot. The President of the Council, designated by the President of the Assembly, is invested with an absolute majority is guaranteed by the Constitution. The legislative Assembly (eighty members) was elected on March 8,1959.
Head of State :Modibo Keita – President and Prime Minister.
Modibo Keita, Prime Minister of the Mali Republic (formerly French Sudan) was one of the central figures in the events which led to the break-up of the short-lived mali Federation (French Sudan and French Senegal) on August 20, 1960.After differences in policy between the two countries had flared into a crisis, the Senegalese seceded. The Senegalese claimed that Mr.Keita, who was Prime Minister of  the Federation, was attempting  to stage a coup d’etat  when he declared a “state of urgency” and dismissed Senegal’s premier, M. Mamadou Dia, from his Federal post as Defense Minister. The  function between the Senegalese and Sudanese leaders arose over whether the Federation should have a strong central government as M. Keita wanted, or be a loosely-knit federation as advocated by the Senegalese leaders, M. Leopold Senghor and M. Dia. On September 22, following the break-up, the Sudanese Republic was renamed the Mali Republic. M. Keita was born at Bamako in 1915. At the age of 21 he became a teacher. He was one of the first members of the Autonomist African Democratic Rally (R.D.A.) and 1947 was elected secretary general of its Sudanese branch, the left wing Union Soudanaise.  This later became the African Federation Party.
Economic Development: The Northern region of Mali Republic is desert, but the Southern part is fertile and humid. The Sansanding dam, built on the river Niger, is used for irrigation system. Main exports of Mali Republic are: peanuts, cotton, maiz, millet, rice, Karatas, and timber. It imports agricultural machinery, pharmaceutical products, vehicles, textiles.
Monetary unit: Mali franc.
Religion: Moslem, animist and Christian.
Defense:  Mali  Republic is in the process of organizing its own defenses.
NIGERIA
Geographical Situation:Nigeria became an independent state within the British Commonwealth on October 1, 1960. Nigeria is situated in West Africa and its boundaries are, in the north Niger and Card, in the east British Cameroon and the Republic of Cameroon, in the west, Dahomey, in the south the Atlantic Ocean.
Area:339,169 sq.miles.
Population:36,000,000.
Capital:Federal capital Lagos; Principal towns: Ibadan, Kano, Port Harcourt, Kaduna, Ogbomoshu, Iwo, Iwo, Enugu, Sokoto.
Language:Besides native tongues, Arabic and English are spoken. English is official.
Covernment:As an independent country Nigeria is a member of British Commonwealth. Its government is a federal system. On Octobver 1, 1954 it became a federation comprising three regions: the Northern, the Eastern and the Western. Each regions has got its local government with a governor and a Prime Minister. The federal government seated at Lagos exercises all federal authority with the  governor  general and Federal Prime Minister at its head.
The Federal Legislature consist of tow houses. The lower house, the House of Representatives, is composed of 321 members elected by direct adult suffrage, universal in the Eastern and Western Regions, but confined to men in the Northern. The representation of the Regions is in proportion to their populations: the Northern Region returns 174, the Eastern Region 73, the Western Region 62 members, and the federal territory of Lagos three members.
The  Upper House is the Senate, with 12 members from each region, nominated by the Regional Legislatures, together with four members from Lagos and four special members nominated by the Governor-General. The Senate has revisionary or delaying powers. The Queen of United Kingdom is Queen of Nigeria, and she appoints a Govenor-General to carry out most of the functions of the Head of State.The Federal Prime Minister, who is Head of the Government, heads a coalition of his own party and the national council for Nigeria and the  Cameroons. The Council of Ministers is Nigeria’s Cabinet.
(a) Representative Head of State: Nnamedi  Azikiwe – Governor General.
DR NNAMEDI AZIKIWE who became Governor-General of the Federation of Nigeria on November 15, 1960, was the President of the Nigerian Senate. Formerly he was Premier of Eastern Nigeria and leader of the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons, Eastern Nigeria’s governing party.
Dr Azikiwe. Popularly known as “Zik” was born in 1904 in Northern Nigeria, son of a Government clerk. He was a brilliant pupil at Methodist schools and at the  age of 20 left Nigeria to continue his studies in the United States, financed by his father’s meager savings. There he had bitter struggles against adversity, poverty and loneliness but he paid his college fees by working his won way. After nine years he had gained tow honors degrees. M.A. (Philosophy) and M.Sc (Anthropology) at Lincoln and Pennsylvania Universities, honorary doctorates form Lincoln and Howard Universities and was a lectured in political science at Lincoln University.
On his way back to Africa in 1934 he stopped off in Ghana, then the Gold Coast, when he spent nearly three years acquiring journalistic and political experience for his project of furthering the Nationalist cause. On his return to Nigeria he quickly became one of the leading personalities in the Nationalist movement, and beginning with the well-known “west African Pilot” newspaper in Lagos, he established a chain of newspapers and campaigned vigorously gains Colonial rule.
When the National Council for Nigeria and the Cameroons was formed in 1944 “Zik” the idol of  his people, the Ibos, became its secretary-General. Two years later he was the president, firmly established as  first-class orator and organizer. He was a member of the old Central Legislative Council and the first leader of the N.C.N.C. Opposition in the Western House of Assembly.
In 1953 his party won 72 out of 97 seats in the Eastern House of Assembly  and Dr. Azikiwe became leader of the Government and Minister of local Government. When the 1954 Constitution came into force he became Eastern Nigeria’s first Premier. As Premier he initiated big educational programmes, introduced adult suffrage for the first time in Nigeria, reorganized the administration and established a House of Chiefs, or second chamber.
Dr Azikiwe is the author of a number of books on African and Nigerian nationalism and economics. He writes poetry, is fond of classical music and is devoted to his family, three boys and a girl.
He is firmly committed to a strong, united Nigeria.
(b) Head of Government: Alhaji Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa.
Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa is prime Minister of the Federation of Nigeria. He was born in 1912.,son of a District Head. His education Began in the elementary school in Tafawa Balewa, the village of his origin in Northern Nigeria, and he later qualified as a teacher from Katsina College.
His political ideas developed when he was studying  at London University (Institute of Education) and in 1946 he returned to Nigeria and entered politics as a rising man in the Northern People’s Congress party. He was a commoner among the aristocratic Fulani leadership of the Hausa people  but quickly gained influence and popular appeal.
By 1948 he was in the Federal Parliament and represented Nigeria  at a Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in London.
Sir Abubakar gained his first Ministerial post in 1952 when he became Minister of Works in the first Nigerian Council of Ministers.
In the House of Representatives (the Federal Legislature) he led the Northern People’s Congress, its largest party, and in 1957, after three years service as Minister of Transport, he became Nigeria’s first Prime Minister.
His Government at the time of independence in October 1960 was a coalition between the N.P.C. and the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons, whose leader, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, became the new Governor General.
Sir Abubakar is a devout Muslim, a conservative, a shrewd politician and  mediator who supports the West but has made it clear that the Federal Government should not as a matter of routione associate itself with any of the big power blocs.
He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in May 1960, while in London for the final conference on Nigeria’s independence.
Economic Development:Nigeria is mainly an agricultural country. Among  its chief exports are cocoa, cattle, timber, hides and skins, palm kernels. Oil is also exploited.
Mineral exports include columbite (95% of the world) and tin ore. Coal is also produced, but it is used for local consumption. Imports are textiles, machinery, iron and steel manufacture, commercial vehicles, tobacco, petroleum products, medicine and drugs. Nigeria has made industrial progress as well.
Nigeria’s economic advance has made her to be prosperous in the rest of Africa. Its gross national income is the biggest among Africa, only surpassed by that of the Union of South Africa.
Monetary unit: Nigerian Pound.
Religion: Animist and Christian. Defense:Although Nigeria has been under British Protection, it maintains its own military organizations.
In April 1958 the government of the federation took over control of the Royal Nigerian Military forces, formerly part of the Royal West African Frontier Force.
The  forces now consist five battalions of the Queen’s won Nigeria Regiment, a Reconnaissance company, one Squadron of Field Engineers, and one Squadron of Signals.
The Naval  force was formally created in May 1958, its title is Royal Nigerian Navy.
MAURITANIA
Geographical Situation: Known as Islamic Republic of Mauritania, the country became an independent sovereign state on November 28, 1960, and is situated in N.W. Africa. It is bounded in the north by Spanish and French Sahara’s, in the east by Mali Republic, in the south by Senegal and Mali Republic, in the west, by the Atlantic Ocean.
Area: 419,000 sq. miles.
Population:623,800.
Capital:Nouakchott, other important towns: Akjoujt, Fort-Gouraud and Atar.
Language:Arabic is National while French is official. Berber is also spoken.
Government:Republic. The Republic of Mauritania voted its constitution on March 22,1959. The Legislative power is exercised by only one National Assembly, elected by universal suffrage for a period of five years. The executive power is visited on the Prime Minister, elected by the Assembly (absolute majority in the third round). The judiciary authority is independent of executive and legislative powers. The National Assembly (forty members) was elected on May 17,1959.
Moktar Ould Daddah, Prime Minister.
MDaddah is leader of the Islamic Republic’s fight to maintain its national borders against the claims of Morocco and Senegal. Senegal has claimed part of Mauritania (which is now a member state of French community) and Morocco claims that Mauritania is a Moroccan province. But M. Daddah has said that his country would fight any aggression aimed at partitioning the country.
“Mauritania wants to be a bridge between Arab and Black Africa,  belonging to neither block, but maintaining her won individuality.” He said in March 1960. M.Daddah was born in December 1924 at Boutilimit. He is a Moor. He studied at the University of Paris form 1949 to 1955, taking a degree in law and a diploma in Oriental languages. M. Daddah,  who is leader of the ruling Mauritania Regroupment Party, which stands for an independent Mauritania, was elected Prime Minister on January 14, 1958, after being vice-premier under the French governor from May 1957.
Economic Development:Economically, Mauritania is a backward state; iron and copper are mined in little quantity and the country exports gum Arabic. Cattle quantity and the country exports gum Arabic. Cattle breeding is also an important copper, salt, and drugs, and petroleum products.
Monetary unit: Manuritanian franc.
Religion: Moslem and Animist with Christian minority.
Defiance:Mauritania is organizing its own defiance system.
DEPENDENT COUNTRIES
MOZAMBQUE
Geographical Situation: the southe East African of Portugal is bounded in the west By the Rhodesias, in the north by Tanganyika and Nyasaland, In the east by the Indian ocean, in the south by the union of South Africa and Indian Ocean.
Area: 302,328 sq miles.
Population: 6,23,000.
Capital: Lorenco Marques, others big towns are Beira, Quelimaue.
Language:  Portuguese and native tongues.
Government: Administered as Portuguese Overseas territories.The Native people do not share any responsibility in governments
Ruler: portuese head of state.
Economic: Development: Mozambique is mainly an agricultural country.It exports also forest products Currency-portuguese Escudos.
Religion: Mainly Animists with Moslemsa and Christians.
Defence: Under Portuguese defence system.
SOUTHERN RHODESIA
Geographical Situation: situated in southern part of central Africa. S. Rhodesia is Bounded in the north by Northern Rhodesia and  Mozambique, in the east by Mozambique, in the south by south Africa and Bechuanaland, and in the west by Bechuanaland.
Area: 150,330 sq. miles.
Population: 2641,500.
Capital: Salisbury, principal towns: Bualawayo Umtali, Gwelo Fort Victoria, Que Que and Gatomma.
Language; Offical is English, native tongue are Bantu dialects.
Government; The self-governing territory of Southern Rhodesia has got its own local governmet with a governor at its   head. The European dominated government has a legislative Assembly,and there is a cabinet of minsters headed by a premier. African political movemetes are not represented in the governmentnoor any important post is given to a native citizen.There is a stong agitation from African political parties which favour African majority government. The European. Domination seems unlikely to surrender j’self. The National Democration party of Southern Rhodesia is the main African Political Body.
Politi. Leader; Joshua Nkomo.
Joshua Nkomo an exild leader of the National Democra-tic party of Southern Rhodesia, (he calls himself “directcr of external and international affairs”) is opposed to any plan to fedrate his country with Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland “against the will of the Africans.”
He was president of the Southern Rhodesia African Nationl Congress when it was banned on February 26,1959.
Nkomo had been a social and was general sectary of the Rhodesian Railway Workeres’Union at Bulawayo when he became chairman fo the Bulawayo branch of the African Nationan Congress. Sir Godfrey Huggins, the prime minster (now Lord Malvern) asked him (April 1952) to go with the Southern Rhodesian delegation to London fer talks on the eonstitutional fature of the territory. Early in 1953 Nkomo in landon eritieised any proposeal to force Africans into the Fedratin. In 1958 he wanted the abolition of the Government’s colonial-stye African Affairs Board (administered by a European )contending that frem the point of view of Africans it had raisd falsd false hopes and served no purpose.
In successive months he called for the dissolution of the Federation shortly after one such appeal (in February 1959, to an Afro-Asian Youth Congress ) his party was decred illegal in Rhodesia.In August 1960 Mr. Nkomo, now based in London, said his party was determined to bring to the noticeof the united Nations Assmbly the case for the Afrecans of Southern Rhodesia (they number 2,590,000 against 211,000 Europeans.)In October he said he wanted the United Nations to intervene, theough they did not wish to became a Untited Nations trusteeship territory. Later he left for New York.
Economic Development; Southern Rhodesia as  an  Agricultural pastoral country is also relatively industrialized with mineral works. It has good f acilities for communications. Its products are to bacco, coen ,peanuts, meat, hides and skins. Minerals are asbestos, gold, coal and chrome ore. Manufacturing in dustry has gained an inecresing importance.
Religion; The majority of the Africans adhere to their traditional faith, but many are christioans with a few Moslems.
Curreney; centeral African Fedeal pound .
Defence; the Fedration of Rhodesias and Nyasaland has its own army and Air Force.
BASUTOLAND
Geographical Situation: the Br. Territory of Basutoland is entirely bounded by the union of south Africa.
Area:   11,716 sq. miles.
Population: 64,900.
Capital: Maseru, other towns are: Mahale’s Hoek and Hlotse.
Language: Native Bantu Tongue, official language for administrative purpose is English.
Government: administrated by British Resident commissioner who is adviced by the council, nominated by native chiefs.
Leader: paramount chief Constantine Bereng seeiso (born 1938) was installed in March, 1960, on the very day of the first meeting of the Legislative council of Basutoland.
He cut short his studies at the school of philosophy,Politics and Economics at oxford, England, for his coronation ceremory at  Maseru.
The young descendant of Moshesh (founder of the Basuto nation) took over from the Regent- his stepmother, princess Mantsebo seeiso- who has served as paramount chieftainess for 20 years.
The 56-year old princess tried her best to postpone The installation until her stepson had ganed his degree and married. But he threatened not to return to oxford unless she handed over power to him. On the eve of his installation he said he had hopes of returning to oxford during 1961.
Princess Mantsebo was the only important Basuto to miss the coronation ceremony. She pleaded illness. A senior chief took her place. The new chief declared on his coronation: “I give myself to you to work for the nation as paramount chief,” and expressed the hope that his reign would be one of “peace and loyatly” The British High commissioner, sir john Maud,Presented him to the Basutos as their” undoubted chief”
Before the coronation Mr. Ntsu Mokhele, leader of the Basutoland Congress party, the largest left-wing force, said they stood for the traditions of Moshesh and recognized the new paramount chief.
The paramount chief nominates one of the eight members (three are elected) of the Basutoland Executive Council.
Political Leader: Ntsn Mokhele leader of Basutoland Congress Party.
Economic Development: the economy of Basutoland is predominatly agrarian.
It produces corn, wheat and sorghum. Livestoke  industry
Includes cattle breeding sheep raizing, horses mules, donkey and goats.
Currency: south African pound.
Religion: Christian and Pagan.
Defence: Under British protection.
TANGANYIKA
Geographical Situation; situated between the great lakes of Central Africa and the lndian Oeean and lying just South of Equator, Tanganyika, one of the British East African Dependencies is a U.N. trust territory adminsteres by U.K.
It is bounded in the north by keny and U ganda,  in the north by Kenya and Uganda, in the east by the Indian oeean, in the south by Mozambique, Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesia, and in the west by Ruanda Urundi and Congo (Leopoldville ).
Area: 362,688 sq. miles.
Population: 9,077,000.
Capital: Dar-es-salaam, main towns Tanga, Tabora, Marogorogo and Kigoma.
Language: official is English, Swahili and other vernacular tongues are spoken.
Government: After the mid-1960 general elections, the Tanganyika African National Union party won over 95% of the seats and its leader Mr. Julius Nyerere was elected  chife Minister of the government. There is a governor who is advised by the council of ministers.
Leader: Julius (Kambarage) Nyerere-Chief Minister.Mr. Nyerere became the first Africa Chief Minister of Tangayika (Trust territory under United Kingdom administration) on sebtember 3 1960 he immediatery declared that his aim was self-government in 1961.
He said it would be achieved as a result of the existing cooperation of the British and the united Nations Trusteeship Council.
His party, the Tanganyika Africa National union, won 70 of the 71 Legislative Assembly seats in the 1960 elections.
Although it also won a big victory in the 1959 elections, Nyerere  refused  office, preferring to lead the Opposition in the Legislative Council.
He has been described as a politician of vision who can bring together Africans, Asians and Europeans. He has said that the “one man, one “principle does not mean Europeans being shipped out of the country by the African majority.Son of Chief Nyerere, Burto of the Zahaki, he was horn in 1923. He was edu cated –he is a Roman Catholic at what is now the Universilty College of East Africa and at Edinburgh University. Studying economies and industry, he graduated as a Master of Arts.
Returning to Tanganyika, he took a teaching post and rejoined the Tanganyika African Assocition. Originally a social socity formed by  a group of british civil servants .Becoming president in 1953,  he drafted a new conistitution which made it political. Under his leader ship the organization became far less extreme.
Following a visit to Tanganyika  by a united Nations mission in 1954, Nyerere flew to New Yourk (1955) to address the Trusteeship Council. On his return he abundant teaching for full-tim politics.
Development: Tanganyika is mainly an agricultural eoutry which produces        sisal coffce, cotton, peanuts , sugar. Sagar-eane and tea. Mainexports are sisal (2/5 of the world output )coffee. Eotton and tobacco. Minerals include goldand diamonds. Forest prorest such as gum Arabie. Beeswax. And timber is also exported.
Religion: Moslem, Christian, Hindu and Animist.
Defence: Under the British East African Command.
NYASALAND
Geographical Situation: situated in the Eastern sides of central Africa, the British Protectorate of Nyasaland is bounded in the east by Mozambique and , in the south by Mozambique, in the west by Mozambique and Northern Rhodesia, the north by Tanganyika.
Area: 49,177 sq.miles.
Population: 2,740,100.
Capital: zomba,important towns: Blantyre, Lilongue and karonga,
Language: official English, Nyanja is a lingua franca and is the language of education.
Government: The status of Nyasaland is protectorate and it was added to the so cold centeral African federation of Rhodesias and Nyasaland whose capital is Salisbury. Due to internal political pressurs, the British government was forsed to make a constitution conference for the territory’s future which took place in London on july 1960. As a resaltof the conference the territory will hold a general election and it is presumed that an all Africa legislative majority will take over the administration of the territory. European minority is also assured to participate in the government.
RUANDA URUNDI
Geographical Situation: situated in the heart of Africa the U.N. Trust territory of Ruanda Urundi is bounded in the north by ugadna.in the east and in the south by Tanganyika,in the  west by congo Republie (Leopoldville).
Area:  20,916 sq. miles.
. population:4,4,000,
capital:Adminisitratve; Nianza (Ruanda); kitega (urundi) commereial :Kigali  (Ruanda) and usumbira (urundi).
Language: official French. And several tribal dialects are spoken.
Government: The U.N. Trust territorv. Administstered by Belgium. Due to Become indenedent in 1962. Is governed by Belgium. Governor general who is responsible for the functions of localgovernment. The territory is divided into two kingdoms, namely Ruanda and Urundi.
Ruler: (1) Charles Mutara Rudaghigwe- Mwami (king) of Ruanda (2) mwami Mwambutsa (king) of urundi.
Economic Development: predominantly an agricultural country, sierra Leone has her main trade with Britain (63%). It exports diamond, iron ores, palm kernnes, coffee and cocoa. Imports are manufactured goods, machinery,vehicles, fuel oils and other finished goods.
Currency: W. African pound.
Religion: Animist, Moslem and Christian.
Defence: British defence system.
ALGERIA
Geographical Situation:Annexed by France in February 1842, Algeria forms part of Metropolitan France  in Africa. Nevertheless,  the Nationalist movements and patriotic struggles by exiled Algerian leaders have made the emergence of Algerian Provisional Government which has gained resignations from many  world nations.
Algeria’s boundaries are: in the north the Mediterranean Sea, in the west Morocco and Mauritania, in the south Mali Republic and Niger Republic, and in the east Libya and Tunisia.
Area: 855,900 sq.miles.
Population:10,210,000.
Capital: Algiers, other towns are Oran, Constantine, Bone, Tizi-Ouazeu, Phillipeville, Mascara.
Language: Official – Freeh and Arabic, Berber is also spoken.
Government:Administered by a governor general who is assisted by a consultative council of 15 members and a Superior Council of 60 members, Algeria is considered as part of mainland France. It sends its deputies to Paris.
On the other hand the Algerian Provisional government seated at Tunis in exile, has Council of Ministers headed by a Prime Minister.
Ruler:President Charles De Gaulle.
Nationalist-Leader:Ferhat Abbas- Prime Minister.
Ferhat Abbas, Prime Minister of the “Provisional Government of the Algerian Republic, ”first came into prominence in 1943, when he was interned by the French fro 15 days for issuing an independence manifesto.
He is descended from a well-established Algerian Berber family, and was born in the Constantine province of Algeria on October 24,1899. His father was a caid (local governor).
He went to school at Philippeville, then studied pharmacy at the University of Algiers, established himself in local politics, and volunteered for the French army in 1939.
He returned to Algeria in 1940, and in 1943 took part in the formation of the Union Democratique du Manifeste  Algerienne (Seeking autonomy but within the French Union).
When his party led a raid on When his party led a raid on Algiers at the end of the war in Europe in 1945, Mr. Abbas was again arrested, and was imprisoned for about tow years.
He was leader of the party from 1948-56.
He was elected to the French Constituent Assembly in 1946, and later to the French Union Assembly. In 1948 he became the first Moslem candidate to be returned in the first elections for an Algerian Assembly.He want to Cairo in April 1956 to become a member of the exiled Algerian National Liberation Front (F.L.N.),and the following year became a member of its executive committee.He was elected Prime Minister in 1958. His political life began with the hope of Algerian assimilation with France, bat developed into a claim for independence.
Economic Development:Algeria,formerly an agricultural country, jhas now turned its efforts towards oil industrialization. Its efforts towards oil industrialization. Its economic wealth is mainly agricultural products. Algeria exports
ANGOLA
Geographical Situation: The West African Portuguese colony of Angola is bounded in the north by Congo (Leopoldville) , in the east by Congo (Leopoldville) and Northern Rhodesia, in the south by South West Africa and in the west by the Atlantic Ocean.
Area: 481,351 sq. miles.
Population: Over 4,500,000.
Capital:LUANDA, others Lobito Hoambo, Benguella Malange, Mocamede Uwigi and Najowo.
Language: Official is Portuguese, different tribal languages are spoken.
Government:The constitution of March 19,1933 makes Angola technically an integral part of Portugal. A governor general is appointed by the Portuguese Council of Ministers for a term of 4 years, after which he may be reappointed.
The governor  general is responsible to the Minister of Overseas territories. He has executive and legislative authority. The legislative council in Angola has twenty six members partly elected and partly nominated, by white legislators.
There is no idea of development towards self government or political freedom due to the strong suppression  of Nationalism.
There is a forced labor system imposed on the native population even sometimes without any wages or pay.
Nationalist Leader:Jose Gilmore, President of Angola people’s Union Party. This party is the only big political party which demands complete independence for Angola. Exiled jose Golmore,Angolese nationalist leader, attended the Second African independent States Conference at Addis Ababa, in juine 1960, and addressed the conference appealing for the cause of his country.
Economic Development: primarily an agricultural country, Angola produces coffee, cotton, cocoa, maiz, sugar, palm kernels and oil, sisal, peanuts and rice. Mineral products consist of diamonds, Lignite, copper, petroleum oil, manganese, iron ores and coal. Chief exports are diamonds, coffee and fish products.
Currency.  Conots.
Religion:  Animists, but there is a strong catholic influence.
Defence: Portuguese defence system.
BECHUANALAND
Geographical Situation: the British protectorate of Bechuanaland is bounded in the south and east by the union of south Africa, in the west by south west Africa, in the north by S.W. Africa and S. Rhodesia.
Area: 75,000 sq. miles.
Population: 4,000.
Capital:  administered from Mafeking in cape province, Union of south Africa.
Language: official English,bantu language.
Government: New constitution advances for the British protectorate of Bechuanaland were outlined in a British government white paper on October 3, 290.
They provide for a Legislative council of between 31 and 35 members with the resident commissioner as president and an Executive Council of ten.
The Legislative council will have 21 elected members, of whom ten will be Europeans, ten Africans and one Asian. There will be seven nominated official members and three ex-official members.
European Voters will elect the European elected member of the Legislative Council, an African council will lect the African members and Asian Voters will elect the Asian representive.
Leader: seretse Khama- Tribal chief.
Seretse Khama (born July 1, 1921) was chief Elect of the Bamangwato people of Bechuanaland when he was banished by the British Government (March 6, 1950) following his marriage to an Englishwoman, Ruth Williams. The wedding of the tall, dignified ruler of 100,00
People started one of the greatest racial controversies known in the British Commonwealth. It also caused a split in the tribe and differences betwea. It also caused a split in the tribe and differences between seretse khama and his uncle, Tshekedi Khama, the  Regent, who was bitterly opposed at the time to any child of mixed blood one day ruling the Bamangwato people.
It was not until September 25, 1956 that the Government in London announced that seretse Khama could return as a private citizen, having formally renounced for himself and his children all claim to the chieftainship.
Since his return the Bamangwato have been governed by a tribal council, with his cousin, Rasebolai kgamane as African Authority.
The possibility of restoring seretse Khama not only to the chieftainship of the Bamangwato but also to the paramount chieftainship of the whole of Bechuanaland has been discussed in the protectorate. Serestse khama has never been addressed as other than chief. He has succeeded to Tshekedi’s post as tribal secretary (Tshekedi died in June 1959) which makes him chief in everything but name. His wife, who has borne him four children, is accepted as one of the trible.
Economic Development : the country is pastoral with cattle raising and dairy farming as chief as chief industries. Gold, copper and siver are mined. Timber is produced for home consumption.
Religion: Mostly pagan.
Defence: Under British protection.
BRITISH CAMROON
Geographical Situation: the  west African territory of British Cameroons is Bounded in the north and west by Nigeria, in the east and south by the Cameroon Republic and the Atlantic respectively.
Area: 34,081 sq. miles.
Population: 1,440,00.
Capital: BUEA, other important towns are Victoria and Tiko.
Language: English is official, other native tongues and Arabic are spoken.
Government : U.N. trust territory administered by Britain, integrated for the time being with Nigeria. It is decided to hold a plebiscite in the future to integrate the territory either with Nigeria or with the Republic of Cameroon
Leader: John Ngu Foncha- prime Minister. John Ngu Foncha has been premier of the southern Cameroons since January 1959, when his party, the kameroun  National Democratic party, was victorious in the general election. He has addressed the united Nations Trusteeship council on the future of the territory.
Born in 1916, he has been headmaster of to Roman catholic schools. He was a leading spirit in the formation of the Bamenda Teachers’ union and formed a branch of the Nigerian union of Teachers.
In the early days of Dr. Endeley’s kameroun National
Federation, now the kameroun National congress, he was An active supporter.He was one of the original members of the Eastern House of Assembly when, between 1951and 1954, the southern Cameroons sent members there.
In 1954 he formed the kameroun National Democratic party with the aid of Mr. k.N. Jua, now his Minister of social services. In the House of Assembly of the southern Cameroons. For the following period, until winning the 1959 Election, he was leader of the opposition.
Economic Development: cattle breeding and guinea-corn production are the main industry. It also exports bananas, rubber, cocoa, palm oil and kernels, coffee and timber. Imports are textiles, petroleum, consumer goods and iron made materials.
Currency: Nigerian pound.
Religion: Moslem and pagan.
Defence: British defence system.
FRENCH SOMALILAND
Geographical Situation: the French East African territory of Somaliland is bounded in the noth and west by Ethiopia, in the south by someali Republic and in the east by the Gulf of Aden.
Area: About 9,000sq. miles.
Population: Over 60,000.
Capital:   DJIBOUTI, other towns are Ali sabieh and obock.
Language: official is French, somali and Dankhali are spoken.
Government: French Somaliland is administered by a governor responsible to the French government, and is assisted by arepresensative council. In the 1958 referendum, the French Somaliland Voted to remain an overscas territory within the French community.
Head of state: General Charles De Gaulle (French president).
Development: the country is largely arid and scarcely populated. Its importance lies chiefly in the port of Djibouti, the main outlet for Ethiopia’s trade, via the Djibouti Addis Ababa railway chief exports are salt and hides.
Currency: Djibouti Franc.
Religion: Moslem with Christian minority.
Defence: under French defence sysem.
kenya
Geographical Situation: the Br. E. Afri. Colony of Kenya is bounded in the north by Ethiopia and sudan, in the east by the Indian ocean and Somali Republic, in the west by Uganda, in the south by Tanganyika.
Area: 4,960.
Population: 6,51,00.
Capital : Nairobi, other towns Mombasa the chief port, kisumu, Eldoret, Lamu, Nakuru, nyeri.
Language: official is English. Swahili and other native languags
Government: the recently negotiated London conference on kenya’s constitutional future came to an agreement for a general election to be held in 1961 it is assumed that the African majority will hold most seats, but the conference attached itself to a compromising agreement for European and Asian minorities to secire a number of seats.
By 1961, Kenya will be a self governing territory with an African chief minister.
National Leader: jomo Kenyatta-Father of Nationalism.
Jomo Kenyatta, whose shadow is cast on kenya’s political Life was sentenced to seven years imprisonment on April
, for what was called to be “managing” the Man Mau society in Kenya, the British colony, is now living under a restriction order at Lodwar in a remote northern area. Known to his fellow kikuyu as “Burning spear” Kenyatta spent 13 years in England where he studied
Anthropology at London University, and married an English woman. He visited Moscow during the 1930s and was founder and president of the pan African Federation of which Dr. Kwame Nkrumah, the president and prime Minister of Ghana, was general xecretary. He became the leader of the then 100,000-strong Kenya African union.
Giving evidence curing his trial Kenyatta said the Kenya African union was a democratic body, striving to achieve its aims by constitional means. Defending Kenyatta and five others, Mr. D.N. pritt.
Queen’s counsel, acknowledged that mau mau undoubtediy existed on a substantial scale and in a terrifying form in Kenya, but said the prosecution had failed to prove that the accused had taken part in it.
Passing sentence. The Magistrate. Mr. Ransley thacker. a retird supreme court judge, said he was satisfied kenvatta was the “master mind” behind the plan to drive the Europeans out of kenva. “your Mau Mau” he added, “has slaughtered hundreds of men women and children in circumstances which re revolting”
Kenyatta replied “None of us would condone mutilation of human being. We have families of our own. If you think that by working for African rights we have turned Mau Mau, we are sorry you have been misled.
“we feel that this case has been so arranged as to bring Mau Mau on us as a scapegoat in order to strangle the Kenya African union-the only African political organization which fights for the rights of the African people”
Kenyatta, born in kamau, son of Ngengi. Chose his present name as a symbol of his country. He is over 60 year of age.
In September 1960, Mr. james Gichuru , present president of the Kenya African National union, returning to Nairobi from talks with the British Government in London, said he made it elear that Africans were determined to have Kenyatta back as their leader.
Officials of the rival organization- the Kenya African Democratic Union- have also pressed for the return of Kenyatta.
Political Leader: tom Mboya.
Tom Mboya is general secretary of the Kenya African National Union (K.A.N.U.) which represents “the overwhelming majority” of the British colony’s six million Africans.
A London constitutional conference on Kenya in January and February 1960 promised Africans a bigger share in the Governmet. Mr. Mboya, however, said the  proposals fell short of expectations and would be out of date before they were implemented.
It is K.ANU.’s policy to regard the legislative council elections in February 1961 as a refendum for immediate independence. If returned with a substantial majority they will ask for a definite date.
Mr Mboya has attacked unjust laws and unfair distribution of wealth in Kenya. He says he wants to see his country’s future closely linked with the European and Asian communities there, with rapid economic development to cncourage a rapid andconfident flow of capital and skill from Britain and other confident flow of capital and skill from Britain and other have chas than econcmic security, they would rather have chaos than economic security limited to the Europeans (who number 66,400) and the Asians (217,000).
An idol of the Africans today, and a rousing spiker in swali and English,Mr. Mboya was an unknown health inspector in Nairobi seven years ago. Born 30 years ago, he first came to notice when he founded a local  government workers union.
He was a member of the Kenya Legislative council and well knwn in the outside world as a campaigner for independence when he was chosen chairman of the All African people’s Conference in Ghana (December 1958) a notable stage in the African nationalist movement.
He is general secretary of the Kenya Federation of Labour, described as Socialist inclined but anti-communist. In March 1955 he stopped a strike of 4,000 docders at Mombasa, but negotiated a 33 per cent wage increase for them.
With a British Workers Travel Association scholarship he studied industrial relations politics at oxford University (1955-6).
When he returned to Kenya the Mau Mau rising had been crushed and Jomo Kenyatta had been jailed on charges of having managed the organization. There were no other Africa leaders on the scene and when the first direct elections of African members to the Legislative council were held, Mboya was able to weld into a solid bloc the seven Africans elected with him.
Economic Development : the colony is predominantly agricural: the highland Until recently was exclusiyly reserved for European Settlement.
Products are coffee tea sisal: mineralsInclude such as gold, sodium-carbonate silt.
Timber Is also produced. Most of these products are exported While the main imports are manufactured goods. Machinery. Transdort equipment and petroleum products.
Currency: East African paund.
Religion: Animist. Christian and Moslem
Defence: Under By East African command.
ZANZIBAR
Geographcal Situation: the East African island, off the shores of Tanganyika. Is a Br. Protectorate together with the isand of pemba.
Area: 1.020 sq. miles.
Population: 285,000.
Capital: Zanzibar.
Language: official is English. Swahili, Arabic and Hindi.
Government: the British resident administers the protectorate, but the sultan retains considerable authority
Ruler: seyyid sir Abdulla Bin Khalifa –sultan
Seyyid sir Abdulla Bin khalifa (Born 1910) ascended The throne of Zanaibar on October 17 1960,taking the oath of allegiance to
Queen Elizabeth of England.He sue ceded seyyid sir khalifa mbin Harub bin Thuwaini bin said, who had reigned for 49 years. In June 1960, sir Hilary Blood, reviewing the con-stituional position of Zanzibar,
Recommended safeguards to ensure the continuation of the assembly and the election of 21 legislative council members to replace the present official (governmet-appointed) members.
The report did not, however, recommend full seld government for Zanzibar. It said that the British Besident should remain president the Executive council with modified powers and that the leader of the majority party should become chief Minister.
Mr Blood said that his recommendations are not to form a ministerial system with a view to creating an internally self-governing state. Such an advance would be impossible.
If in the future Zanzibar wished to join any projected federation of East African territories, it could to so while still being responsible for its own internal affairs.
Economic Development: principal industry is the production of cloves-about 80% of world supply supply comes from Zanzibar. Rice and cassava are grown extensively for local consumption.
Religion: predominantly Moslem.
Defence : Under British protection.
UGANDA
Geographical Situation:   Entirely an inland territory the protectorate of Ugando Lies on the equator. It bounded in the east by Kenya In the north by sudan, in west by the congo (Leopoldville) and in the south by Ruanda Urundi and Tanganyika.
Area:    93,981 sq miles.
Population: 5,767,000.
Capital: Kampala and Entebe, other important towns are: Jinja  and Mbale.
Language: official is English, Swahili, Lugand and different natire tongues are widely spoken.
Government: The protectorate is under British administration in which In particular areas local powers are specifically reserved By treaty to local tribal government. As a result, all Monarchial in constition, these are Buganda, Ankole Toro and Bunyoro. The central government has an Excutive council consisting of the governor and twelve Members.
One of The Rulers:    Mutesa II. King of Baganda. The kabaka Mutesa II of Buganda (Edward William Fr Derrick David wagulembe Lawangula Mutebi) is King of The largest and richest of the four African Kingdoms that Make up the British East African protectorate of Uganda Born in 1924 he is the 34th of his line.
Both he and the lukiko, his African parliament, Want to secede from Uganda, fearing that traditional institutions and the status of the ruler would be jeopardized if their country formed part of a democratic selfgoverning Uganda, For this reason they hav boycotted  the preparation for the Uganda national electionin February 1961 (which are expected to result in a clear tive  Council have been vacant for two years. It was because he “failed to co-operate loyally” so say the British, in the affiairs of Ugaden as a whole that the British Government withdrew recognition of the young raler in November 1953, put him on an aeroplane and deported him to London. A basic issue was the kabaka’s demand thel Buganda should become independent with in a short and stipulated time.
The agreement (1955) allowing him to return after nearly two years of exile, took away some of his powers, redefind the relationship  between the Buganda Government  and the Uganda Government and reaffirmed Buganda’s status as a provice.
On October 4, 1960, the Lukiko called for Buganda to be declared independent  as a self-governing state by January 1,1961.
The British Government replied that “there can be no question of the secession of any part of the protectorate so long as Her Majesty’s Government is the protecting power.”
Buganda was also told that  agreements with Britain could be varied only by mutual consent and there could be no change in status until after a london constitutional conference planned for 1961.
It was further intimated that Buganda must take agreement, the breaking of which “would have the most serious consequences.
Economic Development: Agriculture including livestock is the basis of the economy.
Cotton is raised principally by natives: sugar,coffee,tea and rubber are grown on large plantations herds of caitle and sheep are raised by natives. Coffeetobacco, maiz and ground nuts are produced. Minerals are gold and tin.
Currency: East African pound.
Religion:  pagan, Christian and Moslem.
Defence: UInder British defence system.
SOUTH WEST AFRICA
GeographicalSituation: The country of south west Africa is situated as its name indicated. Its boundaries are in the north Angola, in the east and south  Bechuanaland and the Union of south Africa respectively, and in the west the Atlantic Ocean.
Area: 317,887 sq. miles
Population: 500,000,
Capital: Windhoek, ports are walvis Bay and Luderitz bay.
Language: English, German, and the native Bantu tongues.
Government: S.W. Africa is administered by the Union of south Africa There is a strong nationalist movement supported by other independent African states to place S.W. Africa under the U.N trusteeship and eventually to advance it for independence. Fanuel kozonguizi is president of m S.W. African union which is the largest African political body in the country
Leader: chief Hosea kutako-Tribal leader. Chief Hosea kutako is leader of the Hereros, one of the principal tribes of south-west Africa.
The territory was a German colony until the first World
The union Government has since been progressively integrating it, maintaining that the mandate died with the league.
In 1947 chief kutako asked that four representatives of his tribe should be allowed to appear before the united Nations. The south African Government refused them permission on the grounds that they had no government of their own.
In 1949 another application by chief kutako was refused, and the Rev. Michael scott, a church of Englandclergyman who had long been the voice to the outside world of the Herero people, went in their place and adderessed the united nations general assembly.
The sourth African government has repeatedly declined to place the territory under an international trusteeship system or submit a report on the the administration of the territory. Early in November 1960, Ethiopia and Liberia jointly filed south west african’s case against the union of south Africa, at the international court of justice in hague.
Of about 500,000 people living in the territory about 33,000 are hereros. In 1893 the tribe numbered 100,000. In 1903-4 they were decimated by the german in a military action following a rising. In the official census of 1911 they numbered only 15,000.
Economic Development: the chief occupation of the people is cattle breeding. Agricultural products include hides and skins, butter, cornAnd wheat. There are also minerals such as diamonds, Vanadium, concentrates, tungsten, lead, iron and copper.Its import-export system is attached to that of the union’s trade.
Currency:south African pound.
Christian and pagan.
Defence: south African defence system.
SOUTHERN RHODESIA
GeographicalSituation: situated in southern part of central Africa. S. Rhodesia is Bounded in the north by Northern Rhodesia and  Mozambique, in the east by Mozambique, in the south by south Africa and Bechuanaland, and in the west by Bechuanaland.
Area: 150,330 sq. miles.
Population: 2641,500.
Capital: Salisbury, principal towns: Bualawayo Umtali, Gwelo Fort Victoria, Que Que and Gatomma.
Language; Offical is English, native tongue are Bantu dialects.
Government; The self-governing territory of Southern Rhodesia has got its own local governmet with a governor at its   head. The European dominated government has a legislative Assembly,and there is a cabinet of minsters headed by a premier. African political movemetes are not represented in the governmentnoor any important post is given to a native citizen.
There is a stong agitation from African political parties which favour African majority government. The European. Domination seems unlikely to surrender j’self. The National Democration party of Southern Rhodesia is the main African Political Body.
Politi. Leader; Joshua Nkomo.
Joshua Nkomo an exild leader of the National Democra-tic party of Southern Rhodesia, (he calls himself “directcr of external and international affairs”) is opposed to any plan to fedrate his country with Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland “against the will of the Africans.”
He was president of the Southern Rhodesia African Nationl Congress when it was banned on February 26,1959.
Nkomo had been a social and was general sectary of the Rhodesian Railway Workeres’Union at Bulawayo when he became chairman fo the Bulawayo branch of the African Nationan Congress. Sir Godfrey Huggins, the prime minster (now Lord Malvern) asked him (April 1952) to go with the Southern Rhodesian delegation to London fer talks on the eonstitutional fature of the territory.
Early in 1953 Nkomo in landon eritieised any proposeal to force Africans into the Fedratin. In 1958 he wanted the abolition of the Government’s colonial-stye African Affairs Board (administered by a European )contending that frem the point of view of Africans it had raisd falsd false hopes and served no purpose.
In successive months he called for the dissolution of the Federation shortly after one such appeal (in February 1959, to an Afro-Asian Youth Congress ) his party was decred illegal in Rhodesia.
In August 1960 Mr. Nkomo, now based in London, said his party was determined to bring to the noticeof the united Nations Assmbly the case for the Afrecans of Southern Rhodesia (they number 2,590,000 against 211,000 Europeans.)In October he said he wanted the United Nations to intervene, theough they did not wish to became a Untited Nations trusteeship territory. Later he left for New York.
Economic Development; Southern Rhodesia as  an  Agricultural pastoral country is also relatively industrialized with mineral works. It has good f acilities for communications. Its products are to bacco, coen ,peanuts, meat, hides and skins. Minerals are asbestos, gold, coal and chrome ore. Manufacturing in dustry has gained an inecresing importance.
Religion; The majority of the Africans adhere to their traditional faith, but many are christioans with a few Moslems. Curreney; centeral African Fedeal pound .
Defence; the Fedration of Rhodesias and Nyasaland has its own army and Air Force. A new central African command was set up in December 1953. The total strength of the army is 6000.
GAMBIA
Geographical situation: the British west African colony and protocterate of Gambia is bordered in the west by the Atlantic, the remaining part by the Senegal.
Area: 4,003 sq. miles.
Population: 285.000.
Capital: Bathurst. Other towns are Georgetown and Bintag
Language: English and native tongues.
Government: British protectorate and colony administered by a governor.
Sovereign: Queen Elizabeth II.
Economic: Development:  Mainly an agricultural country ,Gambia’s chief export is ground nut (90%). Other products include palm kenels, hides and skins, beeswax, millet, rice cotton and maiz.
Monetary unit: west African pound.
Religion: Moslem with Christian minority.
Defence: British defence system.
BRITISH CAMROON
Geographical Situation: the  west African territory of British Cameroons is  Bounded in the north and west by Nigeria, in the east and south by the Cameroon Republic and the Atlantic respectively.
Area: 34,081 sq. miles.
Population: 1,440,00.
Capital: BUEA, other important towns are Victoria and Tiko.
Language: English is official, other native tongues and Arabic are spoken.
Government : U.N. trust territory administered by Britain, integrated for the time being with Nigeria. It is decided to hold a plebiscite in the future to integrate the territory either with Nigeria or with the Republic of Cameroon
Leader: John Ngu Foncha- prime Minister. John Ngu Foncha has been premier of the southern Cameroons since January 1959, when his party, the kameroun  National Democratic party, was victorious in the general election. He has addressed the united Nations Trusteeship council on the future of the territory.
Born in 1916, he has been headmaster of to Roman catholic schools. He was a leading spirit in the formation of the Bamenda Teachers’ union and formed a branch of the Nigerian union of Teachers.
In the early days of Dr. Endeley’s kameroun National Federation, now the kameroun National congress, he was An active supporter.He was one of the original members of the Eastern House of Assembly when, between 1951and 1954, the southern Cameroons sent members there.
In 1954 he formed the kameroun National Democratic party with the aid of Mr. k.N. Jua, now his Minister of social services. In the House of Assembly of the southern Cameroons. For the following period, until winning the 1959 Election, he was leader of the opposition.
Economic Development: cattle breeding and guinea-corn production are the main industry. It also exports bananas, rubber, cocoa, palm oil and kernels, coffee and timber. Imports are textiles, petroleum, consumer goods and iron made materials.
Currency: Nigerian pound.
Religion: Moslem and pagan.
Defence: British defence system.
Special Report
While bringing happiness, prosperity and hope for the whole continent of Africa, the year 1960 has witnessed also a great concern and worry for Africa as well as for the rest of the world:and this is the congo situation.
The Republic of Congo (Leopldville) which attained independence on June 30, 1960, became a trouble-torn state during the first days of its independence
The “Force publique” (now the Congolese National Army) mutinied and the government was unable to control the situation. Belgium intervened by sending her troops. Massive exodus of Europeans was taking place.
Thereafter, the whole nation was plunged into a complete disorder and terror. The following is a diary of the main events, developed out of Congo’s situation, which put the rest of African countries and the United Nations in such a dilemma to solve the crisis.
July 7. United Nations security council unanimously endorsed Congo application united Nations membership
July 8. Agreement reached between Force publique and congoLese Government that command be handed over to Congolese   Government that command be handed over to Congo lese officers.Belgians fly out troops from Germany to congo. Alleged attempt on life of prime Minister Lumumba mdiscovered.
July 9. European and American refugees continued to cross River Congo to Brazzaville, others crossed into Ugands. Six Europeans killed in Elisabethville.
July 10. Belgian troops in action in Elisabethville and luluabourg; 2,00 refugees reported in Copperbelt towns of Northern Rhodesia. Others reported in Tanganyika.
July. M. Mois Tshombe deelaered Katanga independent. M.Lumumba appealedto United Nations for aid; 20,000 Europeans reported to have left. More Belgian toops sent by air.
July2. In New  York Mr. Hammarsljold of nine African delegations to UInited Nations. Congo government asked U.S.A. to supply 3,00 troops to restore order. Belgian troops evacuated part of Matadi. M. Lumumba and at Elisabethville (Katanga) aiport
July 13. M. Lumumba and president kasavubu demanded immediate withdrawal of Belgian troops, U.S.S.R.  called on united Nations to take action to end aggression in congo by Belgian troops,  with support U. S. A.Britain. West Germany and France. Belgian paratroopers sized Leopoldville airport. To Congo. Ghana Government refused to recognize independence to Congo.
July 14. Congo broke off diplomatic relations with Belgium.
United Nations security council called on Belgium towithdarw and authorized sending of United Nations troops: (resolution Carried eight to nil with three abstentions (Britiain,Frace and china). Fighting beween Begians and Congolese in leopoldiville reported. Majpr General Carl von Horn of Sweden (chief of staff of united Nations Truce supervision organization in Palestine) appointed commander of United Natios force for congo, made up in first place of troops from GhanaGuinea, Mali and Tunisia. M. Tshombe said he would refuse united Nations troops permission to land in Katanga Further incidents reported from Leopoldville: Belgians attacked M. Lamumba at airport.
July 15. M. Lumumba demanded that all Belgian troops leave the congo within twelve hours. General H.T. Alexander, British officer in charge of Ghanaian army, announced that the Force publique had laid doen its army, announced that the Force publique had laid down its arms. M. Tshombeaccused M. Lumumba of being a communist.
July 16. First United Nations troops arrived U.A.R. refused to recognize latanga: Belgium noted Ktanga’s declaration of independence and [romised co-opration there and “in other regions of the congo where security order reign.”
July 17. 5,000 united Nations troops in congo from Ghana, TunisiaMorocco and Ethiopia. Belgian officer took over force publique in Katanga. General victor Lundula recently appointed Commander-in-chief of Congolese Army, arrested in Elisabethville by Katanga Government M. Joseph yava, Minister of Economic Affairs, and member of conakat party . resigned from M. Lumumba’s Government.
July 18. M. Lumumba reported to have said he would call in soviet forces unless United Nations made Belgians withdraw: but Congolese senate rejected killed near thysville. Sir Roy welensky said it was not easy to turn of Katanga. Sir Roy welensk said it was not easy to turn down M. Tshombe’s request for Federal troops, but the matter had to be dealt with constitutionally.
July 19. Eiro decided to send to send contingent to congo under United Natiors command. Belgium agreed to withraw troops from Leopoldville at request of United Nations. Congolese National Assembly refused to ratify breaking off of diplomatic relations with Belgium.
July 20. The secretary-General reported to security council on the united Nations ferces in congo: Swedish troops from Gaza would be added to existing contingents. The Belgian and Congolese representatives accused each other’s counties of “atrocities.”
July 21. Security council called on Belgium to withdraw its troops “speedily” and empowered secretary-General to “take all necessary action to this effect.” United states secretary of state Herter said Russia was bluffing about sending troops to congo. King Baudouin of the Belgians said his troops had “a sacred duty” to intervene to save lives.
July 22. M. Lumumba left by air to attend united in new York. Sixteen Congolese and two Belgianas killed in fighting. Reported agreement signed for economic development of congo by congo international Management corporation led by Mr. L. E. Detwiler, an American financier.
July 24. Belgian Army evacuated Leopoldville: 1,000 Tunisian troops under United Nations Command occupied Luluabour.
July 25 General Horn claimed he had been misquoted in saying that United Nations troops wpuld take over Katanga and evict Belgian troops. M. Tshombe said United nmations troops would have  to fight their way into Katanga. Four conservative M.P.s called on british Government to uphold the independence of Katanga. The United states Ambassador to the congo presented his credentials to president Kasavubu.
July 26. Mr. Ian scott presented his credentials as first British Ambassador to the Congolese Republic. General Lundula released in Katanga.
July 27. Over 9,000 united Nations troops reported deployed over the congo, outside Katanga.
July 28. M. Lumumba said the congo would accept Ameriacan aid.
July 29. Belgian Government decided to withraw 1.500 of its 10,00 troops.
July 30. Mr. Hammarskjold and the Congolese Government announced the formation of a six-member Congolese Commission under the chairmanship of M. Lumumba to super vise the implementation  of the Security Council resolutions. The sending of a Canadian contingent to the United Nations force was announced.
July 31. M.A. Gizenga, Congolese Vice- Premier, said United Nations was not fulfilling its task of entering Katanga.
August 1. Pay disputes reported in some factories and offices in Leopoldville, where there was failure to pay the new, higher rates of pay promised to all Workers.
August 2. Mr. Hammarskjold said United Nations troops would enter Katanga on August 6. M. Lumumba visited London.
August 3. After a visit by Dr. Ralph Bunche, United Nations  representative, to M. Tshombe, the decision for United Nations troops to enter Katanga was cancelled. M. Lumumba left Morocco for Guinea. The Belgian Foreign Minister said that  for Guinea. The Belgian Foreign Minister said that for the united nations  to send troops into Katanga was an interfere in the internal affairs of another country. Soviet Government said all steps should be takento secure total evacuation of Belgian troops and to stop the present “occupant” of Katanga. United kingdom Governmen refused to recall parliament for a debate on the Katanga situation.
august 7. Central committee of Abake (the party led by president kasavubu) reported to have passed vote of no confidence in M.  Lumumba. M. sekeu Teure said that if United Nations troops did rot enter Katanga, he would put Guinea contingent at the direct disposal of Congolese Government for this purpose. Colonial office in Londo denied probability of rumoured link-up between Katanga. Planning secession. Mr. Hammarkjolj urged complete Belgian withdrawal. President Nkrumah of Ghana and M. Lumumba met in Accra. Mr. Julius Nyere denied existence of any agreement between Tanganyika and Katanga. Delegation in London failed to secure recognition.
August 9. M. isnombe agreed to allow entry of United Nations troops on certain conoitions.: M. Lumumba declared satate of emergency in congo: he described those members of the Abako rariy  who demanded contederation as “Fascists pioptting with the Abbe Fulbert youlou” (president of the former French Conge). Security troops from Katanga and said entry of united Nations troops must not be used to intervene or inlluence outcome of any internal conflict. M. Eyskens, Belgian prime Minister, said Belgium would have to reviw military position within N.A.T.O.
August 10. In rioting in Leopoldville, M. Lumumba was struck by Abako supporters. M. kalonji reported to be forming an autonomous minig state among the Baluba tribesmen in kasai.
August 11. The Ghana parliament authorized Dr. Nkrumah to commit Ghanaian troops to direct action in the congo, if the united Nations failed to solve the Katanga problem.
August 12. Mr. Hammarskjold arrived in Elisabethville, capital of Katanga, together with 250 (Swedish) United Nations troops.
August 14. Katanga military police used tear gas to break up antiTshombe demonstration in Elisabethville. M. Lumumba called for the withedrawal of all White troops.
August 15. M. Lumumba said his  Government had lost confidence in Mr. Hammarskjoeld because he favoured Belgians.
August 17. Congolese troops reported to be interfering with United Nations forces. M. Wigny, Belgian Foreign Minister, said Belgium had a “debt of honour’’ to Katanga.
August 19. Sible. M.  Eyskens won vote of confidence in Belgian Parliament by 115 votes to eighty-two.
August 20. Presidant Tubman of Liberia and president Bourguiba criticized M. Lumumba’s attitude to the United Nations Secretary- General. Reportes from Kasai province were of continued tribal fighting between Lulua and Baluba.
August 21. United Nations Securiy Council strongly supported Mr. Hammarskjoeld’s action in the Congo. M. Lumumba reported between various sections of the united Nations force and Congoles Army. Units of Fore Publique were flown to kasai Province to stop tribal fighting. Mr. Tshombe appealed for Congo Federation.
August 22. Congolese troops flew to Luluabourg to put down tribal fighting in Kasai. United Nations forsed in Congo  reached a total of 15,000 with arrival of 700 parachutists from Abako Party (kasavubu),the puna party and the Kalonji wing of the National Congolese Movement (M.N.C.).
August 23. Distrubaces in Albertville, northern Katanga, involving Mail troops of United Natins.
August 24. M kalongi announced that airfield at Bakwanga, capital of “Mining state,” was out of action, to prevent Congolese troops landig.
August 25. Leopoldville polise fired on anti-Lumuba demonstrators outside the African Foreighn Ministers Conference in preparation for African “summit” conference. M. kalaonji appealed to M. Tshombe for military aid.
August 26. Soviet cultural delegation arrived in Leopoldville. M. Lumumba said Belgians were using Brazzaville in (ex-french) Congo Republic as  centre of spy net and plots.
August 27. Congoles troops occupied Bakwanga in kasai and approached Katanga border. Canadians, Americans and a Swede engaged in transporting equipment were attacked by crown at Stanleyville airport. A group of Ethiopians intervened to save the victims.
August 29. Ten Congolese soliers reported wounded in fighting with Kalonji’s forces in kasai. M. Lumumba called for cooperation with Europeans. United states protested about beating up of eight servicemen.
August 30. Last of Belgian combat troops reported to have left. M. kaloji appealed for troops to Dr. Bunche and Generalde Gaulle.
August 31. Mr. Hammarkskjoeld compilaind that all Belgian troops. had not been withdrawn. Thirteen African states at leopeldville conference endorsed the United Nations’ work in the Congo and called on Mr. Lumumba’s Government to co-operate with United Nations
September 1. M.Eyskens, Belgian Prime Minister, said he would not resign. Continued fighting reported from Bakwanga.
September 2. Russing transport aircraft arrived for M. Lumumba. There British journalists arrested by Congolese troops in Bakwanga. M.J. Bolikango, leader of the puna party in Equateur, arrested.
September 4. Brittish journalists released. More fighting and casualties reported from kasai.
September 5. Presidant Kasavubu said he had dismissed M. Lumumba as prime Minister and appointed M. Joseph heo in his place. M Lumumba broadcast an appeal to Army to continue to support him.
September 6. Police fired on anti-Lumumba demonstrators, killing two. M.Lumumba again appealed for support and said Cabinet would take over M. Kasavubu’s functions. M. Tshombe associated himself with president Kasavubu and called for a conference to work out a confederation.
September 7. Congo Parliament by sixty to nineteen voted to cancel the dismissal of Lumumba appealed to independent African state for military aid. M. Bolikango was set free by troops siding with Abako.
September 8. United states protested against Russia supplying Congo with planes and other material for military purposes.
September 9. Mr. Lumumba called for immediate withdrawal of United Nations troops. In the senate he won vote of confidence by forty-one to two. United Nations closed Elisabethville  airport after Belgiam arms hade been delivered. Security council met again. Guinea announced intention to withdraw its troops from United Nations command.
September 11. United Nations troops guarding Leopoldville radio station refused to allow Mr. Lumumba to enter. Both Mr. Lumumba and Mr. Heo announced that they were sending  delegations to United Nation. Increasing uncertainty in Katanga; evacuation of Belgians reported; Mr. Tshombe said Katanga intended to remain completely independent.
September 12. Majority of Congolese Army reported in support of Colonel Mobutu, Chief of staff appointed by Presidant Kasavubu. M. Lumumba claimed Army support. U.A.R. announced intention to withdraw troops from united Nations command and attacked united Nations action in closing airports and radio stations. Security Council adjorned because of confusing reports on congo situation.
September 13. united Nations reopened congo airports and Leopoldville radio station. In New York acute problem  developed regarding recognition of rival congo delegations. Mr. zorin (U.S.S.R.) ATTACKED Mr. hammarskjoeld and said a western coalition was trying to colonize the congo.
September 14.colonel Mobutu announced that he was taking over supreme power in the country. He broadcast that he was suspending both Congolese prime ministers and also the head of state from their functions until the erisis was solved. The army would take control until the end of the year. The united Nations security council became involved in procedural argaments regarding, firstly, whether it should accord recognition to either, both or neither of the congo delegations, and whether the representative of Guinea, one of five non-members of the council admitted  to the meeting, should be allowed to speak on the point of representation. The council eventually decided against hearing Guinea, and failed to adopt a resolution that the Lumumba delegation, led by Mr. kanza, be heard. It then adjourned.
In Northern katange, Manono, a mining town, was reported ablaze and it was estimated seventy Africans had been killed. Refugees were flown into Elisabethville. Before intervening, the lrish commander of united nations troops disarmed the Katanga police “in the face of the ricters” Katanga Government protested against united nations decision not to allow reinforcements of gendarmerie to be flown to Manono.
September 15. M. Lumumba asked the day in the officers’ mess of the Ghanaian united Nations force.
Congolese soldiers made two successful attempts to break into the mess but Ghana troops pushed them to break into the mess but Ghana troops pushed them out. Many of the troops in the camp are Balubas. United nations representative maintained contact with president kasavubu. Colonel Mobutu ordered guards on all pro-communist embassies and gave staff forty-eight hours to leave.
He asked for continued united nations help. Mali troops united nations help.
The presence of about 300 “seemingly well organized.” Congolese troops inside the Northern Katanga border. In new York, the united states accused the soviet union of trying to make the congo a “soviet satellite state in the heart of Africa”.
Septembor 16. M Lumumba’s disappearance reported. President kasavubu received ambassadors  of all Afaican states exept Guinea. Nigeria agreed to send troops to join the United Nations force.
In New York, U.S.S.R. put forward a resolution asking the Secetary- General and the United Nations force “to put an end to all forms of interference in the internal affeirs of the Congo.” Mr. Hammarskjoeld pointed out that in viewof conflicting claims to exercise authority by local politicians, it was inevitable that his representatives should be obliged to take steps which might be interpreted as favouring one side or the other.
He cited the latest protest by Presidant kasavubu against the United Nations troops for preventing Mr. Lumumba from “being brought to justice.”
The Council also had before it the United states resolation urging the SECERATERY- General to “continue to give vigous effects to the resolutions to refain from sending aid to the Congo except through the United Nations.” His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie I, Emperor of Ehiopia, sent a telegramme to the Security Council of the United Nations, in which He expressed His deep concern about the Congo situation. In view of reconciling the different Congolese rival leaders, the Emperor suggested the creation of a special committee, whose members should be drawn from U.N. representatives of African countries.
Sptember 17. A Tunisian- Ceylonese compromise resolution which had wide support from Afro-asian powers was vetoed in the Security Conuncil by Russina. United states therefore called foran emergency session of the General Assembly. Russian and Czech Embassy staffs left Congo.
September 18. In the General Assembly the U.S.S.R. reperesentative continued his attack on Mr. Hammarskjoeld saying that what was going on was an attempt to establish a “neo-colonial regime under the blue flag of the United Nations” and “in open-morcery” of the Security Council’s resolutions. Mr. Hammarskjoeld replied by saying: “The General Assembly knows me well enough to realize that Iwould not wish to serve one day beyond the point at which such continued service would be, and would be considered to be, in the best interests of the organization.” Sources close to Mr. Hammarskjoeld indicated that he had no intention of resigning but was looking to the assembly to vindicate him and his work in Congo.
Ghana table, on behalf of fourteen Afro-Asian States, a draft resolution reaffirming the Security Council’s actions to meet Congo emergency. This resolution appealed to all Congolese to seek a speed solution by peaceful means of all their internal conflicts, with the assistance as appropriate of Asian and African reperesentatives appointed by the advisory committee on the Congo, in consulution with the Secretary- General.Mr. Lumumba reappeared at the official Prime Minister’s residence saying that he had signed an agreement of reconciliation with President Kasavubu. This the president denied.
September 19. Mr. Lumumba said that he had asked the United Nations to provide him with a plane so that he would go to New York, at the head of the Congolese delegation. On the other hand, he affirmed that the coup  of colonel Mobuto was insignificant and that this question would be settled at the proper time. Mr. Lumumba added that the expolsion of the Soviet and Czech diplomats was “unfair.” Radio Moscow broad casts a different  version: “it is the soviets themselves who decided to leave the country in view of the hostile attitude of the new Congolese leaders.” News from Leopoldville affirmed that the aggressor Pakas, against Colonel Mobutu, was arrested with his accomplice, and was sent to the prison of Ruzungu. According to the news paper “L’Essor du Congo “ the number of Balubas, massacred in the Tshilenge region (Kasai), was estimated to be 2,500. U.N. spokesman in Elizabethville announced completed withdrawal of Congolese troops from Katanga.
September 21. The U.N. Secretary General addressed to the head of the Katanga Provincial government his deep concern over “the actions against the Balubas by the Katanga policemen.”
September 22. U.N. spokesman in Leopoldville announced that Ethiopians of the U.N. forces would replace the Katanga policemen, who were in charge of the safety of the trains between kamina and Luena lines.
September 23. Mr. Albert Kalondji announced that he agreed with the principle of a cease-fire in Southern kasai, and that of “No man’s Land” control by the U.N. would be created.
September 25. “Russia in Katanga, that would be death” declared Mr. Moise Tshombe at the stadium of “Prince Albert” in Elisabethville, to the Katanga soldiers returning from the “Front.” Colonel Mobutu released the former minister of youth and supposed to be transferred to the Katanga prison.
September 26. About 200 supportes of Mr. Lumumba in Leopoldville demonstrated in front of the administrative building, and prevented all access to the building. The demonstrators had poster with the iniscription: “Long live Lumumba,” “Long live the centeral government.”
Colonel Mobutu asked Mr. “H”s special representative, Mr. Dayal, for the withedrawal of Ghana and Guinea troops from Congo.
September 27. “It is not by shaking hands with Mr. Lumumba that Mr. kasavubu will solve the congo crisis. The problem of Katanga and South kasai remain as such, declared Mr. Heo,”The threat of civil war woud not be avoided. The present crisis will not be solved by reshafting the Lumumba government does not exist,” concluded Mr. Heo.
September 28. Ethiopia confirmed its support to the United Nations and to Mr. Hammarskjoeld. The spokesman of U.S. state Department in New York, declared that in the course of that half an hour talk that the Deputy prime Minister of Ethiopia, H.E. Mr. Aklilou Habte-Wold, had with president Eisenhower, Mr. Aklilou had reaffirmed the total support of his country to the cause of the United Nations and its Secretary General Mr. Hammarskjoeld. Both the Presidant and the Deputy prime Minister agreed that the aide to the Congo should be channeled through U.N.
September 29. The Balubas who attacked the Umpemba  parkin the centre of Katanga, withdrew after the intervention of the Katanga policemen, supported by the Moroccan units of U.N.
September 30. “We will not accept to participate in the round table conference, proposed by Colonel Mobutu, unless the conference takes place outside Leopoldville, in an African neutral territory” declared Mr. Albert Kalondji, self-styeld President of the “autonomus state of kasai,” while he was passing through Brazzaville.
With the arrival of an Indonesian contingent, the U.N. force in Congo will reach 18,000 men representing 28 nations, declared the spokesman of U.N. general headquarter in the Congo. Arrival of Nigerian and the Malayan contingents  bring to 30 nattions that will be reperesented.
October 4. Defining the positionof the government party, “Conacta,” its president, Mr. Ndala kambola declared the following measures for Katanga:
The evacuation of all the Belgians who woud not take Katanga nationality.
Nationalisation of the “Union miniere” of Upper Katanga and all Belgian compains.
Katanga administration’s preference of French, Canadian, German to Brlgian technicians.
Refusal of accepting new Belgian Contingents and capital. Mr. Nold Kambola then accused the U.N. of putting arms to elements opposing the Katanga government, so that to serve the interests of Mr. Lumumba.
October 5. Mr. Jean Finant, president of the government in the Eastern      province and  principal collaborator of Mr. Lumumba, and Louis Lumumba, younger brother of the prime Minister, and Minister of Interior in this province, have been arrested in their residence by the order of Colonel Mobutu.
October 6.Mr. kambola, who declared him self as president of the “Conakat”, stated that his threat to nationalise the Belgian enterprises was meant to make nthe Belgians revise their policy in regard to Katanga.
October 7. Reshuffiling of Lumumba government. Deputy General N.polo held a press conference.Colonel cobutu gava order at once to arrest Deputy General N. polo, but the Conglolese soldiers arrived late, the general had already left his residence. In his place, many of his collaborators were arrested.
October 8. The katanga government would envisage the break up of diplomatic relarions with Belgium, if the latter main tains its “unfriendly” attitude, declared Mr. Tashombe. Commenting the recent declaration, made by Mr. Gaston Eyston Eyskens, and concering the non-recognition of Katanga.
October 9. The situation gut worse in the noth-East Katanga the U.N. announced that a group of Ethiopian troops had been sent urgently to the spot: and that the Katanga police would recnforee its contingents.
Mr Lumumba escaped arrest during his weekly out in which he transformed it into succession of political meetings. Three minutes later, about 30 men in a truck arrived, after he had already left.
October 10. We have sent a legal notice for the arrest of Mr. Lumumba, but, the execution of his arrest had been prevented, declared Mr. Bomboko, president of the college of general commissioners of the congo.
We have alredy contacted the U.N. in view of the execution of this notice, cortinued Mr. Bomboko. We believe, he added, that the attitude of the united nations is insdired by the threat of certain African countries, who defend Lumumba. We have enough of this so called. African polities of eertain countries who would lige to establish bere their influed nations saving: “if the united nations is not willing to hand over. Patrice Lumumba the natioral Congolese army will take its responsabilities”
About a hurdred of Balubas were reported to have been killed in the last 72 baurs and this would bring the number of the vietims, since the beginning of the trouble. To about 380.
October 11. Awell informed couree reveald that the special representative of U.N. secretary General. Opposed the arrest of Mr. Patrice Lumumba.
The spokesman of the U.N. at Elisabethville announeed that eight hundred Ethuopan soldiers of the united nations force. Arrived at kabalo, in the north of Katanga. some more Ethiopian soldiers are expected there to replace gradually the senegalese and the Malian troops who are  going back to Dakar and Bamako respectively.
October 12. Mr. Joseph kasavubu, Mr. Justin Bomboko and colonel Mobutu, sent a joint telegramme to Mr Hammarskjoeld asking him implicitly to come back over the U.N. decision, in regard to Mr, Lummba’s arrest.
October 13. We don’t want war with the United Nations, the Congolese blood is too precious for us” declares colonel Mobutu, as he left the “royal residence.”  “It is not up to Mr. Bomboko or the General Commissioners to give orders to the  army for the arrest of Mr. Lumumba.” added the colonel. “ but it is up to me. to order the army.”
Colonel Mobubu’s soldiers decided to encircle and watch Mr. Lumumba’s residence.
October 16. Colonel Mobutu, Chief of the Congoles army, coming from Leopoldville by plane, arrived at Elisabethville. Immediatily, he went to see the Head of the katanga province, with whom he had a talk.
October 21. After having announced that he had sebt a message to Mr. Dag Hammarskiaeld asking him to call back Mr. Ian Berendson and the members of the chief of staff  in the U.N. general  head quarter  in Elisabethville, Mr. Tshombe declared to the press that his demand was made in view of the lack of confidence in the U.N. in the affairs of Kabale.
October 24. Some congolese soldiers. About one thcusand in number and well equipped with arms and munitions. Were heading towards Bakwang, eapital of southern kasa, announced a communiqué of the chief of staff of the police Force of the province. The communiqué added that U.N. force was informed ot this and is expeeted to intervene. If failed the southern kasai police force would take on offensive operation.
October 25. A group of Congolese national armv has been controlling the African seetion of Leopoldville, since three days, by asking and searching identification papers.
HAILE SELASSIE I
PRIZE TRUSET
-8
Ethiopia studies Award 10 October 1964 PROF, MARCEL COHEN A Frenchman and  scholar of renown , professor Mrcel Cohenhas extensively written on Ethiopia especially on our history, customers, ceremonies, and games. In addition to his scholarly commitments, professor Cohen has been awarded the Croix de Guerre in both world wars.
The Haile Selassie award for Ethiopia Studies of a value of Eth. $20,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to professor Marcel Cohen, doyen of Ethiopiacists world-renowned linguist and Semitic scholar, for his creation in paris of the school of Ethiopian Studies, and for the inspiration which, his orginginal research and brilliant writings have given to his contemporaries, his pupils and his pupils' pupils.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY PROF. MARCEL COHEN
C'est avec une grande fierte que jiai requ la distinction qui m'a ete accordee ici comme couronnement de ma carriere d'ethiopisant. Au bout de plus de quarante annees ouj'ai enseigne i'amharigna et le geez, j'ai eu le plaisir, le bonheur, je dois dire, de former , d'aider plutot a la formation d'un assez grand nombre de savants plus jeunes que moi, qui continuent mes travaux, aet dont vous connaisez plusieurs, parce qu'ills sont venus travailler ici dans le pays-meme. ii y en aqui sejournent encore parmi vous, d'autres qui sont venus et qui revidendront encore. je dois mentionner aussique pendant ces annees d'etntre vous pourront connatre.
C'est avec joie que je me suis retouve dans cette ville que jen'avais pas vue depuis 53 ans. je l'ai trouvee evidemment changee. j'ai vu la sous mes yeux ce que je capitale. Du temps ou j'y etais deja le grand Menelik ii avait introduit cet instrument de la vie moderne qu'est i'imprimerie, et il avait fovorise la creation de premieres ecoles. Aujourd ' hul ce sont des livres en grande quantite qui s'imriment ici. ii y a beaucopu de jenes auteurs, et sous le patronage de Sa majeste I' Empereur Haile Selassie les decoles se sont multipliees  et se multiplint et s'augmentent toujour. Et e plus il a founde cette nouvelle organisation dont nous beneficions aujourd;hui, et dnt je laremercie encore pour ma part.
His imperial Majesty awarding prof. Marcel Cohen, presented by H.E . Commodors Iskinder Desta.
Africa Research Award 10 October 1964
PROF WILLIAM LEO HANSBERRY
professor William leo Hansberry was born in Mississipi and educted in HArvard, Virginia State Collge, the Universities of Oxford and Cairo and has served Howard University over a long period of time. Beginning 40 years ago, he introduced the first course on early African civilisations, course eriched and documented with material obtained often at his ownd expense and presented always with his exemplary dedication to the truth revealed by research.
Prof William Leo Hansberry is an Adviser and Distinguished professor of the University of Nigeria;a Trustee of the African- American institute ; for eight years the was Chairman of the Governing council of Africa House in Washington, and also Adviser to the private organisation,, Operations Cross-roads Africa."
The Haile Selassie Award for AFrican Research of a value of Eth. $70,000, gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to professor William Leo Hansberry for his an thropological, archaeological and historical studies of Africa, for being the tourch bearer who opened the eyes of his fellow-Americans to see and appreciated the vast and still uncharted world of African history, and for the inspiration he gave to a whole generation of students - the present leaders of African and through them the people generation of students- the present leaders of Africa and through them the people generation of students- the present leaders of African and through them the people generation fo students- the present leaders of Africa and through them the people of Africa-to reafffirm their identity so that they can face the future with faith, confidence and courage.
Acceptance speech by Prof. William Leo Hansberry
For nearly 50 yyears, I have been endeavouring to search out and correelted and synthesize in a critical and humanized manner the relevant evidence relating to Africa's true position in world history and in world affairs. In the course of this effort, I have been profoundly impressed by the abudance of evidence relating to Africa's storied and unstoried past. But I have often been deeply distressed by the fact that the truie import of this evidence was so little known to the world at large.
I was therefore immensely pleased when I learned that your imperial Maesty had established a Trust which has as one of its primaerey objectives to recogize and encourage those who are devoting themselves to the task of making this vast body of evidence available in convenient from to the world at large. I was especially gratified of evidence available in convenient form to the world at large. I was especially gratified when I lerned that I had been chosen as a recipient of the first Haile Selassie I prize Trust Award for African Research in m y efforts towards this end.
I am confident, your imperial MAjesty, that many of my fellow-Americans and African brothers join me in expressing to you and the Trustees of the Haile Selassie I prize Trust my very deep gratitude for the great honour which you have bestowed upon me for my effort over deep gratitude for the grat honour which you have bestowed upon me for my efforts over the years to asssist in correcting longstanding misconceptions about Africa's proper place in world  history and in world affairs.
May God grant that your great work continue for many years to come.
His imperial Majesty awarding prof. W.L. Hansberry, presented by Ato Wondowesen Mengesha.
HE ATO KEBEDE MIKAEL
HE ATO KEBEDE MIKAEL has assured himself and honoured place among Ethiopia authors through his litary achievements and dedication to intellecual pursuits.
The Haile Selassie Award for Amharic Literature of a value of Eth.$7,000, gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to H.E. Ato Kebde Mikel, for his signifcant contribution to the enrichment of the Amharic language by providing rich and diversified literature to the learning and reading public, by adapting renowned literary national language is flexible, rich , adaptable, and capable to express not only the cultural heritage of Ethiopia but also the heritages of other nations.
HE Ato Kebede Mikael, laureate of Amharic Litrature.
ATO AFEWERK TEKLE
The Ethiopia artist of international repute was born in 1925 E.C in Ankober in teh province of Showa. His early training as an artist was mainly at the Slade Faculty of ARts in London, He has since studied in paris, Rome, Florence and Spain. The works of Afewerk Tekele are to be found in private and public collection in Europe, Russia, America and Africa.
Te Haile Selassie Award for fine Arts of a value of Eth. $7,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to Ato Afewerk Tekele, versatile and disciplined artis, for his outstanding paintings, drawings, landscapes, oils, and portraits which eloquently express his particular world environment, and for his contribution in being among the first to introduce contemporary techniques to Ethiopian subject matter and content.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY ATO AFEWERK TEKLE
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
On this solemn occasion of my extreme happines, I cannot help remembering that repeated affirmation by the many schoars and philosophers, who have contemplated at length on this life of ours "that a span of man's life is somposed of sorrow and happiness alternately".
In saying this, the span of my young life, particularly in my childhood, I do not recall any happiness, except times filled with suffering and sorrow. But now, thanks last few years the fruits of my hard work have brought me appreciation from the one who brought me up and educated me, my sovereign Emperir; admiration from the who brought me up and educated me, my Sovereign Emperor; admiration from the enlightened public at large, and great happiness to me as I have never experienced.
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY,
I humbly beg your gracious MAjesty to allow me to tell those in this assembly. in particular those who witnessed and gave me moral support in my diffcult and sometimes impossible struggles in teh creative field for the dignity and integrity of art. With your gracious permission I was to say to them "I aM INDEED HAPPY TODAY AND THEY SHOULD BE HAPPY TOO!"
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY, The patron and protector of Ethiopian, indeed of African Art,
In being the first artist to receive this prize which is highly esteemed and possessing the historic name of your Majesty, I feel  indeed most  honored. May God and history reward you.
Long live the Emperor
May Ethiopia live forever
HIM awarding Ato Afewerk Tekle, presented by Ato Abebe Kebede.
TEKA EGHANO AND COMPANY
During the past seven years the company of take Eghano has continually striven to produce coffee of ever-improved quality. At the same time, it has given priority to the human take of promoting the level of its employees and their training for better achievements.
ATO TEKA EGHANO
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY!
It is great joy to me to come before Your Majesty and express my throughts, For reasons that agriculture is belived to be Ethiopia's Source of economy, and for my being the award recipient of the Haile Selassie I Prize Trust, my joy is double fold.
Although plantation of coffee- the cause for our award- is a tiring task, we started growing coffee wigthout having enough capital, but with spirit and courage. Under Mr. Costa Alexandrakis, Mr. Guisseppe Galantina and my self collaborated to this venture and now we are granted this honour. Aside from this , the money we borrowed from teh Development Bank of Ethhiopia-established by Your Majesty's farsightedness is the rsult of this honour.
YOUR MAJESTY!
people from teh province I reside in say that , "cofffee kills her owner and rises herself", and I belive that they have good resons for saying this. Allthough it is difficult to use manual power of only few, as has been repeatedly stated by Your majesty, agriculture, and in particular coffee plantation is the step to development.
In any kind of work, there should be moral support. It is when there is such support that one's spirit is aroused. It is our hope-be it for coffee or any other  kind of agriculture- that there will  be many Ethiopian specialists, for their help and advise are needed.
For the privilege in cooperative farms, and in our day and night endevour, I managed to establish a company in my name, and for me to receive an award in the name of the company is a significant example to all private farm investors.
I believe that this award will arouse the urge of thousands of Ethiopias, and inspire them to work, and abolish the idea of saying. "We work, but out work is not recognized". The award is not limited only to the joy of the recipient, but will not b e denied that it is a base to development and prosperity of Ethiopia.
As people form any party of the world with prominent services recive awards from this Trust, I believe that we, Your people of Ethiopia, according to our ability would with spirit and wholeheartedness serive to be participants of international awards.
Long live Your Imperial Majesty!
Long live His imperial Highness!
Long live Ethiopia for every free.
HIM awarding Ato Teka Eghano, presented by Dr. G.E.W. Wolstenholme.
ETHIOPIAN TYRE ECONOMY PLANT
The Ethiopia Tyro Economy plant merits recognition for endeavors contributive to the growth of the national economy and the exemplary value of its activities during the seven years of its existence.
The Haile Selassie Award for industry of a value of Eth. $ 7,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to The Ethiopian Tyre Ecopnomy plant for its examplary management that  has manifested over a period of seven years daring, ingenuity, progressiveness, and energetic leadership. The management has insight and ability to explore and succeed in a venture that was initially uncertain but which later succeeded  not only in the limited objective of rethreading used tyres, but in the larger enterprise of producing rubber soles for the previously importing shoe industries in Ethiopia.
His Imperial Majesty awaring Ato Gebreyesus Oda, Presented by Mr. W.J. Pile.
In Addis Ababa Adwa, Asumera, Bhaer Dar, Dire Dawa and Hagere Hiwot, the influence of the young Men's Christian Asociation has made itself felt in tehe social educational and spiritual needs of thousands young men and women. It has given practical aid to the youth of Ethiopia and promoted their activities. It sets an example of service and ledership which is of incalculable value to this country.
The Haile Selassie Award for Humanitarian Activities of of a value of Eth. $7,000 gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to the young Men's Christian Association in Ethiopia for its significant role over a period of 17 years in instilling high ideals of enlightened citizenship and concern for the welfare of fellowmen in teh minds of over 150,000 Ethiopias infll walks of life through the provision of diversified social educational and sports program.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY H.E. COL. TAMRAT YIGEZU PRESIDENT OF THE YMCA
Your imperial Majesty
Members of the imperial Court Trustees of the Haile Selassie I prize Trust Fellow Award Winners Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlem. One behalf of the Young Men's Christian Association's Board of MAnagers, our total membership, contributors and staff we weould like to express our deep appreciation to your imperial MAjesty and teh Trustees of teh Haile Selassie i prize Trust for this honour bestowed upon us.
This honour is being shared with the YMCAs around the world. Telegrams have been received expressing their apprecitaion to your imperial majesty and congratulations to the Ethiopian YMCA. For our YMCA this honour brings into focus a long tradition of service to  youth through the YMCA. The YMCA movement had its beginning in London, England in 1844. There  have been many significant highlights in teh history of teh EThiopian YMCA starting with your majesty's reqest to the World Alliance of YMCAs in Generva, Switzerland in 1947 for a YMCA to be established in EThiopia. Then came the involvemetn of the international Committee of YMCAs of the United States and Canada in 1950, and following 11 years later in 1961 we were recognized as full members in teh World Alliance. Today this recognition amplifies our common concern for the welfare of youth.
Youth from all walks of life participate in teh multiphase program of the Ethiopian Association:- in literacy prgrams. bnoys' schools, recreation, sports,  boys' clubs, mass education, musical prgrams, lectures, debates, team sports, scraft classes, yyoung mens' clubs and numerous other activities which are created around teh need and interests of our youth.
We wish to express our appreciation for the untiring work and devotion of our YMCA Board of MAnagers, our many committees, and our staff.
We are deeply grateful to Your imperial MAjesty for your continued inspiration to and support of our YMCA. Be assured that the award money will be used for the extension of program services for youth and the medal will be displayed in teh young Men's Christian Association. Be assured that the award money will be used for the extension of program services for youth and the medal will be displayed in teh young Men's Christian Association.
This recognition and honor is not only a great joy for the YMCA but it is also a humbling experience and a challenge. It is humbling in that it makes us evaluate and see our many shortcomings, and humbling as we are made aware of the power of God and the way in which this power works among people in the positive ways in which god makes all things possible. This is a challenges as we see ways in which we might better serve God and as we look to the future. Once again, Your imperial Majesty and the Haile Selassie i prize Trust, thank you for this honour, the Haile Selassie i prize Trust Award for Humanitarian Activities.
His imperial Majesty awarding H.E. Colonel Tamrat Yigezu, presented by H.E. Ato seyoum Haregot
EMPRESS MENEN AWARD 10 OCTOBER 1964
THE NOBEL FOUNDATION
Throughout this century the Nobel foundation has translated the beneficence of Alfred Nobel into a great record of international awards, The foundation has won the respect and administration of the greater part of teh world for its integrity, courage impartiality, internationality and conscientious judgement.
The Empress Menen Award given once in four years on teh intiative of the Trustees- with a value of Eth. $35,000 , gold medal, and diploma will be awarded to The Nobel foundation, for services to humanity in the recognition and encouragement of high purpose wherever it may be found in teh world.
ACCEPTANCE SPEEC BY PROF. A. TISELUS
In deep respect, teh Nobel Foundation with to express their gratitude for the great distinction conferred upon us, the Empress Menen Award.
The Haile Selassie i prize Trust and the Nobel Foundation have similar aims- ro recognize and to encourage achievements to the benefit of mankind. The Haile Selassie i prize Trust Awards and teh Nobel prizes also have in common that they are to be given to the worthiest without regard to  nationality, race , religion of political creed.
Our experience has show to us that it is possible to fulfill this high purposes, The difficulties are obvious and shrtcomings cannot be avoided. However, we are under the impression that even in a world of conflicting opinions in many perhaps in most questions, it is possible to find a manifest international opinion for awarding those who have made particularly valuable contributions to human welfare, human welfare in its widest and deepest sense, as an expression of teh gratitude of mankind.
We have the greatest respect and admiration for the initiative taken  by your imperial Majesty in creating this prze Trust. We believe that it is significant that Ethiopia with its high clutural ambitions and its prominent position in the great continent of Africa will be the home of this Trust.
We have great confidence in its future and we shall follow its activities with great sympathy and great interest.
On behalf of the Nobel Foundation, may i express to your imperial Majesty our deepest gratitude.
Empress Menen Award: Prof.  Tiselius, on behalf of the Nobel Foundation, receives the prize.
Haile Selassie prize laureates.
PROFESSOR WOLF LESLAU
professor Leslau was born on November 14,1906 in Czeschowa, poland, at the University of Vienna, and in Paris at the Ecole National des Langues Orientales, and the Sorbonne, where he obtained his Licence-es-Lettres and Docteur-es-Lettres.
He has taught in several institutions among which are Brandeis Unviersity, New School for Social Research, Asia Institute, and the University College of Addis Ababa as a Visiting professor. He is presently [professor of Hebrew and Semitic Linguistics and Chairman of the Department of Near Eastern and Africa Languages at the University of California, Los Angeles. He was recently nominated FAculty Research Lecturer for 1965-66 by his colleagues in recongnition of his achievements in Semitic studies. Author, educator, orientalist, Prof, Leslau has written 17 books and over 200 articles.
Prof Leslau has conducted research in teh Eghiopic languages during the last thirty years and published extesnively, his most important contributions including a Tigrgana grammar, the obnly scientific grammar of Tigre, a description of the Gafat languge, a number of studies of teh history of Amharic, numerous studies on teh Gurage dialects, a Harari dictionary, and a series of articles on Arabic loanwords in the Ethiopian languages.
His intrest, however, its by no means limited to pure linguistics, but extends to culture and folklore He has made a scientinc study of the Falashas and their litrature, and has also done much to polularize Ethiopia folkore in other lancs. As a dedicated teacher, he has striven to encourage young Ethiopian scholar to take an interest in the scientific study of their own culture and linguistics, and their litrature, and has also done much to popularize Ethiopian studies in the New World.
Prof Leslau will  be awarded the 1965 Haile Selassie Award for Ethiopian studies of a value of Eth.
$, - gold medal, and diploma for his outstanding scholarship in particular for having spent a lifetime systematizing the knowledage of the Ethiopian languages and providing a scientinc classification of them.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY PROF. WOLF LESLAU
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY,
Members of the Board, Ladies and Gentlemen:-I wish to express my profound gratitude to the Haile Selassie I prize Trust for having aganted me the award for Ethiopian Studies. I am particularly happy for having received the award from a country that manifested its intellectual maturity as far back as the 4th century of our era.
Indeed. beginning with that time Ethiopia was able to record its culture, history and religion through inscriptions and literary documents. It is a further a sign of intellectual maturity that the present government of Ethiopia under the leadership of His imperial Majesty Haile Selassie i, Started to take stock of its cultural heritage through the creation of various institutions of research. I am referring to the archeological mission and teh institute of Ethiopian Studies, institutions that investigate the culture of the country in its broad aspects.
It is a sign of intellectual maturity to given recognition to the scientific contributions of those individuals who study the various aspects of Ethiopian culture.The Haile Selassie I prize Trust tiook this initiative.
I am particularly happy that the Haile Selassie I prize Trust by granting the Award for Ethiopian Studies to a linguist has recognized the importance that investigation of the country's various languages holds for our knowledage of Ethiopia's cultural and historical past.
His imperial MAjesty awarding prof. W. Leslau, presented by H.E. Lidj Kassa Wolde Mariam.It is a sign of intellectual maturity that the Award for Ethiopia Studies was given to a non-national for his contributions to Ethiopian Studies. Few nations have achieved this maturity. I hope, however, that the day will come wehen the recipien of this award will be an Ethiopian national, an Ethiopian who will devote his lifetime to the country, the attitude of today's intellectual who studies either at the University of this country or abroad, and the attitude of teh non- intellectual who was curious about my reasons for giving attention to languages such as Chaha, Adare, Selti and Argobba . And when I answered that i did it,, latarik". for history , for research, he understood this reason and gave me his full coopration.
It is this attitude of the intellectual and or the non-intellectual alike that makes us foresee the day when the recipient of the Award for Ethiopia Studies will be an Ethiopian. It is in the hope of having contributed towards the achievement of this goal that I grateful accept eh Haile Selassie Award foe Ethiopian Studies.
HE BALAMBARAS MAHTEME SELASSIE WOLDE MESKEL
HE Balambaras Mahteme Selassie Wolrd MEskel was born on October 29th , 1950 in Addis Ababa and is the father of ten Children. Educated at Menelik II Schools, Addis Ababa Frency ,, Lycee" in Cairo, and institute National Superieur c'Agriculture Colonial in paris, HE Balambaras Mahteme Selassie holds a diploma in general agriculture.
Decorated many times at home and abroad, His Excellency is distinguished public official with many years of dedicated service in various fields. His Excellency has served as Minister of Agriculture, Finance, Minister of State in teh Ministry of Education, and is presently the Minister of public workers and Communications.
The stuggle of Amharic to evolve its own identify and develop as a language was made more difficult than ever before by teh introducation of the compeitive European languages and culture. Tehsis problem can be overcome when the Ethiopian heritage is written and recorded for transmission to future generations. At a period when and Amharic is passing through such a transitional and critical stage, His Excellency has made available works outstanding in their literary beauty of the Ethioppian legacy.
His excellency Balambaras Mahiteme Selassie has admirably and largely fulfilled these obligations to conserve and preserve the Ethiopian heritage through his numerous volumes. His writings, especially,, Yamarigna Kine", ,, Yabatoch kirse" and ,, Zikrae Neger" are examples of teh contributions that have assured His Excellency of a respected and high place among scholars in Amharic.
His Excellency has selectfully and meaningfull compiled poems and sayings and recorded church and court procedures which heretofore have been orally transmittd from generation to generation. The Haile Selassie Award for Amharic Literature of a value of Eth, $7,000 , gold medal, and diploma will be given to His Excellency Balamdaras Mahteme Selassie Wolde Meskel for his outstanding and lasting contributions which ensure a firm cultural foudnationa nd setting for Amharic.
Speech By Balambaras Mahteme Selassie Wolde MEskel
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
I am greatly honoured to find myself amongst the prize winners of the Haile Selassie I prize Trust and to receive from your Majesty the Award for Literature.
I was delighted when m y name was announced with those of other winners; my pleasure was even greater when i learnt that the works upon which i had laboured to immortalise the culture and tradition of our country were selected  by teh Committee as my most important contributions towards Ethiopic learning.
The Haile Selassie I prize Trust  has clearly expressed in its publication teh need for and teh value of compiling traditional works, appropriately documented and classifled, and of passing these on teh successive generations, it is indeed very gratifying to find that I have contributed towards this objective.
While it was extremely terrifying to witness the ruthless and barbarous massacre of people and teh destruction of property by teh enemy during the occupation of our country, it was equally distressing to think that tradition and culture might also vanish due to the breaking of the chain in the otherwish smooth continuity of our culture. Furthermore, it was alarming to anticipate that the new generation, readily adopting itself to foreign civilisation, would not k now of our tradition and culture if these were not handed down in writing, and would remain solely under the influence of foreign culture.
It was, threfore, because of this fear that I endeavoured to set aside my personal sentiments, as an author or historian, and sought our elders who had survived teh oppression in order to collect existing writings and subsequently to compile and coordinate all these fragments, often mutilated, so that at last some party of our culture could  be preserved for future generations. The results of my efforts include the books entitled,, Zikre Neger" (Recollections of Bygone Times).,, Yabatoch Kirs" (Heritage from our Forefathers), ,,Amarigna ine" (Amharic Poetry) and,, inkilf Lemine" (Why sleep),. giving a clear picture of our society.
Each of these four books is characteristic: the first shows us that "Our way of life not only reflects our natural abilities but also our tendencies and inclinations", the second that "Most of our proverbs are based on holy writings", the third that "Our poetry is extremely beautiful", and lastly, the fourth that, Our fables illustrate good principles and there is always a moral to be drawn from them".
I feel that I must mention here that I was given sound moral support by the decision of the Ministry of Education and Fine Arts to include the above books in its school curriculum, for which I am deeply grateful, and also for the encouragement and support that I received from friends, teachers and scholars abroad.
In general, our language is rich and beautiful if studied deeply. One word may have several meanings each conveying different ideas.
I believe that the foregoing books, if followed by many other similar works, will give a clear picture of Ethiopian culture.
It is well known that seeking culture from without can make knowledge complete only when it complements the knowledge of one's own. And regarding the knowledge of our own culture, Ethiopia offers a field as rich as it is vast on which to draw. Once our ancestral heritage is reconstructed, nothing would hinder us from making it known to the rest of the world. Thus, it would be expedient for the youth of our country to adopt the motto "We also have it and we are making it known to you". I say this because I know it is the desire of every Ethiopian to see our language and culture propagated.
His imperial Majesty awarding, H.E, Blatten Guesta Mehteme Selassie W.Meskel.
YOUR MAJESTY.
Among the innumerable institutions established by Your Majesty for the development and prestige of Ethiopia, the Haile Selassie I prize Trust is that which offers moral encouragement and a greater cultural life. And, well knowing that the deliberations of the Trustees and their committee of experts are not only of great importance but also very difficult, -- in that the assessment of workers is carried out not through peronal contact with candidates considered, but purely by appraisal of various works through painstaking investigation and review -- I beg Your Majesty's permission to thank, in your presence, The Trustees and all those assisting them in their aduous task.
Long Live His Imperial Majesty
Long Live His Imperial Highness the Crown prince
Long Live Ethiopia in independence.
ATO GEBRE KRISTOS DESTA
Born on the 15th October, 1932 in Harrar, Ato Gebre Kristos Desta was educated in Germany where he obtained diplomas in his academic endeavors and in his professional field of fine arts. In addition to his artistic achievements for which he is being honored, Ato Gebre Kristos writes poems and short stories and he is teaching at the Menelik II Fine Arts School.
A gifted artist with outstanding creative and interpretative abilities, he is largely responsible for introducing non-figurative art in this country. He successfully represents the modern trend among Ethiopian painters and his works constitute a brilliant contribution to the recent development of the world of art at large.
His paintings, which always maintain relationship with reality, manifest a distinct technique full of vitality, discipline, and expressionism.
HIM awarding Ato Gebre Kristos Desta. Fine Arts Prize, 1965.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY ATO GEBRE KRISTOS DESTA
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
The prize Trust which has been established through your Majesty's goodwill and foresight will, undoubtedly, encourage many people and open new avenues to wards different kinds of knowledge.
The main aim of human-being is to make his dreams come true on one hand, and to reap the fruits of his toil on the other. Since civilization itself is history it is difficult to see its result within the span of time of generation or two. But to open new roads of civilization is to encourage the present generation and to pave the way in advance for the coming one. Whenever there is a new kind of civilization, it is possible that the voice of criticism is likely to be heard loud. Any new kind of civilization, if not started at the present time, will become strong and difficult to grasp even when it comes after ten years.
These difficulties have been also felt in the field of Fine Arts -- many artists of the past have been neglected and forgotten during their lifetime, but their works have been praised by the second or the third generation. Although the painter reflects the image of his time and expresses things surrounding him, history has represent ones express the beauty of man and his growth and civilization in general. Although as long as he exists on this planet man is the measure of all things, modern man considers himself as the key to a certain kind of knowledge. But he doesn't boast of his perfection and wisdom.
Modern art also follows the same thought -- the artist tries to see the world subjectively; he tries to express nature around him. On the whole, he endeavors to create new ways and means to explain the universe in general. Nowadays, painting is not limited, and is not led into a narrow channel -- instead, it has become a knowledge which moves fast in many different directions. It is this knowledge of research that makes modern art somewhat confusing.
In life as in the creative process confusion has its own laws and symmetry which definer its mere existence -- likewise, abstract or modern art has its own rules and its own language. Until this language is mastered many people might find abstract art confusing. In art, the greatest happiness is work and the result of creation. Modern art, as the classical paintings, doesn't tell stories and show realistic things like the camera does. In the language of modern art the painting itself is an idea; it is the feeling, the thought, and the expression of something. In this twentieth century, when man delves into space and tries to find the meaning of the universe, in painting too, instead of concentrating on himself alone, man sees the world from many different aspects and tries to express the eternal and the universal by creating music in color, line and form.
YOUR MAJESTY,
Like agriculture, industry and economy, which are the backbones of a country, the Fine Arts are gaining importance in Ethiopia -- and the recognition of Modern Art today by this Prize Trust is highly plausible. This prize is for me, until now, the greatest and I honor it. I have submitted to your Majesty my future plan which will be very useful for the development of art in our country -- and I am sure your Majesty will help me.
I thank from the depth of my heart your Imperial Majesty who is the Founder and the Patron of this foundation. I also thank the Trustees and the judges and wish them success in their future endeavor.
DUMCO DUM COMPANY LTD. (MANIFATTURA SACCHI ASMARA) 	Long live your Imperial Majesty
DUMCO Dum company Ltd. Share Company and its subsidiary, Manifattura Sacchi Asmara, were established in 1950 and in 1960 respectively. DUMCO Dum Company is especially engaged in the extraction of textile fibers from the Doum Palm leaves while Manifattura Sacchi Asmara specializes in the conversion of the Doum fibers into sacks, twines, and cloth. 		Long live members of the Imperial Family
Technical experts have over half a century attempted to extract fiber from Doum Palm leaves but failed to attain tangible results. DUMCO Dum Co. Ltd. succeed admirably in both perfecting the extraction process as well as in conceiving,  designing, and building a prototype of the machine for processing, it developed this technique after ten years of sacrifice, hard work, and perseverance. 		Long live Ethiopia.
The fiber obtained through this process has proved to be fine substitute four jute on which the world's sacking industry primarily depended. With the latest improvements in techniques and machinery, the Doum Palm fiber price compares favorably ably with the price of jute.
The achievement of the Company, which presently employees 650 people, has proved to be more than a local industrial success and one of self-sufficiency. Other countries such as the Sudan and buying sacks from Ethiopia and many others are considering the establishment of similar undertakings.
Manifattura Sacchi Dum Company Ltd. Asmara will be recognized for the uniqueness in its achievement, its contribution to the national economy, and exemplary importance at the international level. Manifattura Sacchi Dum Company will receive the 1965 Haile Selassie Award for industry of a value of Eth. $ 7,000, gold medal, and a diploma.
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH BY MR. TULLIO CAMERINO
YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY
The great honor that has been bestowed by the Haile Selassie I Prize Trust upon the group if industrial activities I have the privilege of launching and realizing gives me today the coveted opportunity of expressing to your Imperial Majesty my most heartfelt thanks together with my sincerest respect.
I believe that your Majesty would like to hear from the living, sincere and deeply moved voice of a foreigner working in the freedom of your Empire the expression of gratitude that I feel my duty to extend to all the Ethiopian labor working in my factories. To them, besides to the gracious kindness of your Imperial Majesty and the benevolent consideration of the Prize Committee, I owe the high recognition granted on this unforgettable moment.
From the world of your Imperial Majesty at the time of establishing the Prize Trust, it is obvious that the progress of the Empire of Ethiopia is of primary but not the sole concern of the Ethiopian. He is also concerned with the welfare of the continent of Africa and the whole world as well. It is because of the farsighted and universal concern that your Imperial Majesty has desired that the contribution of Ethiopian citizens as well as foreign nationals living and working permanently in Ethiopia be officially recognized.
The highest summit of world peace, the welfare mankind, mutual understanding between peoples will be reached in the future -- a desirable future -- through work alone. It is work which brings men closer, unit them, and makes them seek together for peace, welfare, and dignity.
It is in work, guided but free, intelligent and qualified , aware and respectful of the human rights that God granted, in work designed to realize the general welfare and unforgetful of the superior aim of the improvements of the individual, that men can hope with good reason to find a peaceful, prosperous and better tomorrow.
Your Imperial Majesty, I most respectfully ask Imperial Majesty to allow me to express here the hope and the wish that not only the prize awarded to me but also the constant benevolence, the high protection and the continuous effort for an ordered progress of this country will make work, loved and respected in the Empire of Ethiopia. May Ethiopia maintain, under the enlightened guidance of your Imperial Majesty, the prominent rank in spiritual and material progress it has attained in these difficult times.
May God protect and bless this country where the work and the initiative of men from every land are respected and helped and may it never fail to have the peace promised on earth to all men of good will.
Chapter 21
The Last Epoch of Menelik- The Conclusion of the chronicle
In Ethiopia the first years of the 19th century were times when many new things were seen and started.
Moreover, Emperor Menilik all of a sudden became ill and started to become weak although he deserves appreciation for bringing civilization.
With regards to education his attempts so as to make his country's people assiduous, and to enable them understand the value of education and start learning could be seen form the strict proclamation he issued.
"Conquering Lion of the tribe of Judah Menelik II Emperor of Ethiopia" up to now anyone with a skillful hands to do thins used to be called names, therefore, nobody used to work hard to learn and train.
If we line with such harmful situation, churches would be closed, above all, Christianity wouldn't e found.
In other countries not only would they learn each thing, but they also do new things.
Therefore, let all boys and girls enter school offer their six years of age.
Families who are not attentive to teach their children, when the parents die their properties would the transferred to the government, instead of to their children.
It's my government which prepares students and teachers.
, Emperor Menelik".
The issuance of this strict proclamation of confiscation of ownership of land and property is one doesn't comply with education legislative decree showed his great intention with regards to education.
So, for the first time, to start European education, he brought teachers form Egypt an opened a school which is called up to now in his name the Menelik II school in 1908.
He did this thinking that it is the first road for a nation's civilization.
During that time, unless one wanted to use it for clerical services in the church or to be a writer, no one took the skills of reading and writing seriously.
Indeed there were many important things that used to be improved and established.
However, he didn't get enough time for other things and improve greatly the administration apart from developing a nation at a time of war, protecting the enemy that came and establishing peace to his people.
Out of what we callas Menelik's peaceful era, the years after the Adowa war, 6 years were the time when emperor Menelik was obliged to stay at home due to illness, and as a result, his natural diligence and strength became weakened and hindered most of the work.
The first feeling of weariness and illness seemed to have started around 1905.
At a time of consultation meeting, a feeling of boredom was seen on him rather than the usual alertness and motivation for work and understanding with patience.
His strong body seemed to have become wearied.
His main intention was to transfer in a strong base to his grandson whom he fostered, the one Ethiopian government which was a stable territory of state which he toiled for years and established.
Hence, in 1909 he gathered his main governors, army officials and lords before Bishop Mathewos and have them vowed that his grandson Honorable son Iyasu was to be the heir so that they wouldn't betray him.
After that the 6 years up to his death were emperor Menelik's time of illness.
When he was caught by illness he was 67 years old.
During this time of illness, impress Taitu tried her best to seize power.
Nevertheless, the emperor, army officials like Tesema and Habte Ghiorgis who were obedient servants an other lords of the house were seriously opposed the idea of her taking power and so the empress' wish wasn't fulfilled.
Prince Mekonnen whom Menelik likes and trusts as his own son and who expands the Harar Province and whose name is mentioned as a hero during the Adowa war died earlier in 1906.
Army official Tesema, too died at a time when emperor Menelik was seriously ill in 1911 just before the emperor's death.
Emperor Menelik who had done all great things in history and unforgettable, the skills of which he brought about were worthy an glittering like a diamond, was forced to patiently hear in his illness unto death in 1914 things that were being done in his government, which may probably be against his will.
In his 35 years of power, he over came very difficult situations with luck patience and wisdom.
His time of power had a lot of struggle and needed great sacrifice and de void of repose.
In this struggle, he was able to receive the prestigious crown of history through his accomplishment, in being able to combine the wishes of the two heroic kings, Emperor Tewdros, who wished to make Ethiopia one, and Emperor Yohannes, who displayed a great love for his country, and in doing so, Menelik could make Ethiopia wide and strong.
After this what remained was through following his steps holding fast and preserve what he struggled and toiled for.
Emperor Menelik also was a fair judge, that was expected from a king above any other work, who loves straight and truthful things, and who properly punished the wrong doer, and for the one who was done wrong, he kept it rights.
He was also popular for his generosity to the poor and being compassionate supporter.
He was a king who used to say in Ethiopian land, after the right land measurement had been make with a long leather or rope, "If during my reign, anyone doesn't take hold of land and those who preferred to get in to your province of birth, you'll remain without land as well as remain staying where you are."
So, due to his generosity and mercifulness, he used to be called by the name a compassionate mother is called and an unforgettable title among his people "motherly Menelik".
The priests, merchants and farmers whom Menelik used to give mantle, soft palate-horse, mule, silver, and oxen and cows, though officially his death, was obscured after December 11, 1914, his people knew from hearsay that he had passed away , and so they used to compose averse at every work place.
The Empress' Time of Banishment
On April 11, 1911 Tesema the Duke died of a sudden illness.
Since the Honorable son Iyasu was only fifteen then, he was the heir of King Menelik, he started ruling Ethiopia independently.
Nevertheless, being aware of his lack and maturity of administration he chose some of the royal family members to help him, but with regards to sharing counsel it was told that they didn't have the skill and the strength.
(Based on the conventional generation live Taye Gulelat, next to Abeto Iyasu, was by far capable than any other members.
Look at the Honorable child Mahtemeselassie woldemeskel Hulke, Generation of the Royal Family of Sahleselassie, table (2nd line).
Abetu Iyasu, after ruling as being a plenipotentiary, in order to avoid the prophecy that "a queen would arise after king Menelik", he reminded queen Taitu to altogether get out of the Palace and stay at Intoto in banishment, (After seeing the political clash that was going on in Addis Ababa, especially the activities of General Ayalew, who was observed by Lord Michael as being opposition to his son's authority, he was expecting serious measures to be taken against him; in contrast, he was not only released from his arrest but also given promotion at Kembata town, which left him an aching void.
Instead of this, when it is looked at from the matter that led them to have strong desire to oppose the ‘empress' relatives, it is possible to estimate the reason as to why the long-standing conflict with Lord Wole was tight with regards to the matter mentioned above).
Because Abeto Iyasu had not entered the palace queen Taitu spent few months there and on the fifth day of July according to the command was decided to make her move to Entoto.
(At the time Lord Wole consulted his followers to go to Addis Ababa the army leader General Yimer explained his readiness to war for the he said how could we keep silent while the Queen is deposed from her authority.
Lord wole was quoted saying along with the criticism and explained that war was wrong "How could I dismantle the government I built with menelik".
Honorable son Desta Aleme, Zini Kemahu).
Before she started her journey on Thursday, she entered the drawing room where her husband's corpse laid to rest next to St. Mary church, at 4 o'clock in the morning.
The death of Emperor Menelik was not disclosed to the public because General Habte Giorgis consulted them not to.
Unable to control her tears, the Empress said, "I have already put aside my harvest, what do I have here, my lord! I will also follow you in my time," and cried.
The people who were around her were touched by her sorrow.
And started crying.
The sorrow over the death of menelik has not yet been forgotten form the side of the people, and the additional eviction of empress Taitu from the palace was thought to induce the mourning, so the nobility, the lords and the honorable ladies wiped their tears and sympathized with each other so as to keep the secrets that has been kept as yet and not letting it out to the public at this coincidence.
Just at five o'clock the candle that was moistened by bees wax was flickered by the butlers like torch sparkling on the area, surrounding the empress making her ready for the journey.
The commander of cavalry brought the empress' mule.
The mules of the nobility, the lords, the honorable ladies and the thirty-nine ladies of the bed-chamber, were outside the premise of the palace waiting for the arrival of the empress.
As the empress started her journey accompanied by her butlers and servants, all followed her with their mules.
When ever she feels tired the journey would break, she would ride off the mule and would sit on a chair that is given to her for taking some rest, and after a while continue the journey.
After traveling seven chapters and reached Intoto area, and a field named Usher Tezazu, a carpet was laid for her honor and on it was a sofa where she laid for a while.
The men welcomed her with cheering while the women with cries of jubilation.
The priests with their ordination out fits and choirs rhythmically danced with the church song.
As soon as the welcoming ceremony was completed the honorable journey continued in high spirits the music that came out of the large wind instrument like a fife, a single-string violin and the harp loudly played accompanying it.
The parade was large.
However, the death of king Menelik which was kept secret was feared to bring about chaos due to the excessive number of the army.
Yet, the people who realized the empress' journey to Intoto expressed its heartfelt sorrow and has no other idea, the Empress appreciated and said, "we really have people" which revealed the love of the people.
As soon as she reached the Intoto palace, she invited the nobilities, lords, honorable ladies and all those army who were gathered there with a feast for the time coincided with the end of June which was also the end of "the apostle's fasting".
During the time of her banishment, for a year and six months and twenty-two days, her loyal servants and all the army didn't rob her from princlliness.
The nobility, the lords, the honorable ladies too were dropping by her day after day giving the appropriate prestige and honor.
Even Abeto Iyasu used to go and see her taking various gifts.
(In Ethiopian government administration it's known that kings used to chose and empower their consultants and for this there was an old proverb that says "A king without consultant would never reign for more than a year".
After the few dates of reminding, the uncle of Mr. Zewditu, governor Weldegiougis' land was seized by they order of honorable son Iyasu, and come to Empress Taitu asking her for being a go-between.
The empress sent the honorable kebede Adenew to honorable son Iyasu who by then used to live in his father, Duke Michael's premise, and the lather bowed his head and gave her message, and promised that he would make the release of his land effectual.
Afterwards, "Does she ever mention me?"
What did she say about me?
He asked and the messenger replied "yes she mentioned your name" and when he asked "how does she mention my name?" and the messenger replied, "he's my son, and I'm his mother and you're his sister and why didn't he visit us? What did we do to him?" and feeling regret, the honorable son Iyasu told her that he would come "Tomorrow afternoon" and she went off with this message.
On the morrow Empress Taitu was waiting him with Mrs. Zewditu, and honorable son Iyasu came as he said, and at first, the food-table was ready before the empress and Zewditu so honorable son Iyasu asked as to where his food-table was; the empress showed him hers and since he was not so happy to eat with one food-table with the empress, the empress quickly reminded him that we were to feel unhappy to eat with you in one food-table for, not you for you are not the king or queen, so they ate with one food-table and he received thank son the release of the land, and honorable left out.
After wards, the empress who was impressed by her messenger's skill apart from properly delivering the message sent by the empress his deeds to tactic fully bring them closer, asked "where on earth, for Christ's sake, did you get such a diligence" to which he replied "God pointed out for me" he said.
(Honorable Kebede Adenew, Zini Kemahu, July 5, 1980)
If we mention, for instance, the minister of defense, General Habte Ghiorgis bringing gifts of as many oxen, honey and butter, bowing and showing his obedience to her.
Since the empress knew the role he played in the conspiracy against her he came to visit her for the first time since she was banished here less than month ago and she asked him "Habte Giorgis When did you start liking me?"
"You have me placed under an interdiction not to get in to my original dwelling place" and added other wards of criticism.
The General in his very witty and wise nature.
I made consultation with the lords so that you should not go to your region.
It's to protect us from being blind.
If you go what kind of eyes, and what light do we have, I thought about Ethiopia.
And as to you, what other, who made things stable? It's you! He replied.
Interview of Priest Mekonnen and the Wiseman Abebe Worede and all who were these on September 29, 1972)
After listening patiently and attentively to him, and reflecting on it for some time, realizing that with the participation of authority others would gain political experience that help the country, she said, "Habte Ghiorgis, you convinced me! Thank you very much!" and order her servant to receive his gift.
Since on the occasion of the General's visit a feast was ready to invite the people, the lords gather together and came to the hall where the empress was located, and enjoyed the banquet.
At this juncture the empress gave farewell to general HabtetGhiorgis saying "Don't leave me, visit me".
Nevertheless, the Empress Taitu's yoke of banishment was lifted with less than three months' time.
The reason for this was Honorable son Iyasu's government could stay long and in September 1917 the cabinet of ministers Mrs. Zewditu Menelik coronated Empress Zewditu and was made to substitute and lead the government.
However, the mother Empress thought of honorably returning to the former palace would make her standard low and so preferred to stay at her palace in Intoto.
(What's termed as the fasting of the apostles and be broken on July 13 commonly called the fasting of June.)
After Empress Zewditu came to power, she loved and respected her more than any other time, historians told.
After she became Empress, she had to stay in the palace inviting and talking to guests for a month.
But after a month, she went to Intoto Palace to pay a visit to Empress Taitu.
After reaching there and met the mother empress, as she tried to bow and salute her, Empress Taitu reminded her that the crown of Ethiopia Empress Zewditu had on her head was more respected and at that time this kid of salutation would rather be done by her for it was her turn to do so, and there fore, mother the empress stood up and kissed her, it was told.
While Empress Taitu were at Intoto, she used to pray day and night wishing Ethiopia not to fall at some fault.
She used to offer her advice for the occasional request of government affairs.
For this it would be exemplary to mention what she contributed in October 1917 when the king of Wollo, Michael, opposing his son's Honorable Iyasu's deposition from his power and eviction, called for his army fro war against the new regime; as soon as this was heard the nobilities and lords of Shoa region said let's fight region going to Wollo, but General Habte Ghiourgis preferred to go to the Empress to Intoto an consult her before that.
"You didn't take a wise decision for the land of Wollo is by nature barricade, so you'll have killed so many people.
Armies from Wadla Delanta area would attack you so by hook or crook bring them to Shoa, Michael is a hero, he's hasty and he'll come," she gave her wise advice.
Honorable Iyasu in his short-term office went to different regions.
The main causes for his downfall were (1) frequenting strict control, warning demotion and even punishment of death on higher officials (2) doing things that are not expected of his standard, and committing injustice, (3) not only didn't have close relation ships with officials and lords, but also didn't give due respect to elders, (4) participations which made him be suspected to have changed his religion to Islam, etc...
The several officials who were displeased by Honorable son Iyasu's administration raised these points and exaggerated, it by saying that, according to the international situation before world war I, the honorable son Iyasu has an agreement of ammunition purchase with Austria, who was an ally of Nazi, Germany, and had discussions with embassies of Germany, Turkey governments, while the British and French governments were following the matters attentively.
And later using photographic techniques, put honorable Iyasu under Muslim cultural outfits, disseminated these photos which contributed for his down fall.
In addition, an Armenian, father Mussie Leon and the owner of Cinema Empire was said to go to Egypt and brought 20,000 copies of the photograph.
Mussie Kachik Zeni Kemahu, april 1980.
The nobilities and the lords being guided by the war strategy given by the empress, were waiting for King Michael, and as she said he came to Shoa traveling day and night, where General Habte Ghiorgis fought him at a place called Segelle Meda with his army of Shoa in a few days and became victorious, taking captive of the king, history remind us.
On the other hand, as has been mentioned above, Empress Taitu apart from sharing ideas and practically supporting Emperor Menelik, after the Emperor's death she didn't stop offering advice to Empress Zewditu from her banished area, Intoto, so as to guard her commands from going out of balance and sustain her authority.
It was known that Emperor Menelik was sick and even after his assign away, the time became a transition and numerous power rival cries put Ethiopia in great controversy and this would make her a weak country, and since this was a great opportunity for a foreign enemy who would like to split up the country, she was very worried.
Because of this, time and again through the messages she used to send by her confidantes, she was advising ways of Empress Zewditu to strengthen her power, her special secretary who is still alive, Honorable son Desta Aleme, speaks.
(Honorable Son Desta: repeated 5 July, 1980)